Right.
Thank you. Uh we're going to get started
with uh the town of Andover Board of
Selectmen regular meeting for Monday,
January 12th. We're getting started at 7
o'clock. Our first order of business is
the pledge of allegiance. I pledge
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Uh we're going to move on to item two,
public speak. Uh we're going to start
with Liz Loatch.
>> Hi. Oh, you took me off guard. Um just
want to say hi and thanks for all you
guys do. Looking forward to um a quick
meeting for you.
>> Thank you, Louise Goodwin.
>> I'm all set. Thank you. Diane Grineer,
Stephen King,
>> nothing at this time. Happy new
>> Bill Penn.
>> Um, happy 2026 and, uh, just listening
tonight. Thank you.
>> Uh, I have a cell phone. Um 3815
uh Elaine Bukart.
Oh, thank you, Jeff. Sorry,
had a hard time unmuting myself. Um, I
just wanted to um mention a few things.
The uh welcome to Andover sign is um is
done the second one. Uh but now of
course the ground is frozen. So we're
going to have to wait uh a few months
until the public works department can um
can dig the holes to go ahead and
install the signs. So, we're we're
looking at a you know late late winter
project maybe in uh January or February
if there's a thought. Um, also we had
our commission on aging meeting this
afternoon and it was brought to my
attention that um the project for uh
getting the stove up and and ready for
use which requires a hood and a vent and
a fire suppression system in the
kitchen. Um that was a project that had
been uh approved to be done it with this
this year's 25 to$26 in the budget. Um
and uh CIP had definitely had it on
their project is this is something that
should be done this year. Um and we just
don't know what's happened with that
project. It was something that Eric
Anderson was working on and uh looking
into getting prices, things like that
for the stuff that needed to be done and
we just don't want it to get lost with
having um Eric leave. Um, so anyway, we
just I just wanted to point out that
it's important to have a working stove
in the uh Andover Community and Senior
Center so that we can uh do a lot more
things and maybe get more for rentals,
etc. But I just wanted to to point that
out. Um, that's it. Thanks.
>> Okay. Um
the phone number that ended in 3815. I
know you're off mute now. So
>> hi, this is Leanne Hutchinson. Um
nothing at this time. I don't envy you
trying to get through everything on your
agenda in an hour and a half. So um I'm
just here to listen now. Thanks.
>> All right. Uh a Galaxy S25 Plus.
>> Hi, it's Chris in the finance office.
I'm just here to help out and answer any
questions if I if you need me to.
>> Okay. Um,
uh, test grass.
>> Hi. The only thing that I have is a few
parts that were addressed to the board
of selectman. So, I'm not sure if I um
do I read those. Um, we did have a
couple suggestions that I wanted you um
to hear, but I can just forward those to
you. Whatever you'd like. Um, be better
if you forwarded those to to Jim and we
sat there and looked at them offline.
>> Okay, sounds great.
>> Okay. Uh, Diane Grer,
>> thank you. You know, I'm technology
impaired here. Um, nothing really
important. Um, just again, thank
everybody for all that they do and I'm
as always very impressed with the
administrator's report. um very lengthy
and I see you do have a long agenda and
there's lots of stuff on there. Um I was
delighted to see the um plan of
development from the planning and zoning
very long, very comprehensive, very
professional um very happy to see it and
uh thank you guys um and Jed Larson for
heading that um piece up. So thank you
all very much. Good luck tonight. All
right.
>> Um, I did call on Bill Penn, right? I'm
trying to go through the list.
>> Yes,
>> you did. Thank you. I was good.
>> Yeah. Um, Joanne Heber,
>> hello. Just here to listen. Thank you.
>> Kimberly Persong.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> And Doris Maldonado.
Good evening and happy new year. Um, I'm
happy to announce to uh the the board of
selectmen and those who are not aware
that I've been contracted by the office
of early childhood local governance
partners as Andover's inaugural parent
ambassador of the early roots cor
collaborative between Andover Hebrin and
Lebanon. Um and this work is supported
under Connecticut statute 105500
and it's administered by East
Connecticut Eastern Connecticut
University. So my role will be on behalf
of Andover families
to um Andover families with young
children. So 0 to five uh that share
we're sharing our experiences and to
help strengthen and the connections
between our residents the early
childhood resources designed by and to
support them while identifying local
statewide and national resources for our
children with all abilities and
backgrounds. And um through our
connection with the National Early
Childhood Collaboration, we're also
bringing national best practices in our
small rural uh communities. I look
forward to continuing this work uh so
that Andover's young children and
families feel supported and able to
thrive. And I hope to look I look
forward to working with you all. And
thank you for your service and time. If
anyone would like to contact me, I am
open and will be providing and have
provided monthly cafes at the library
and um hope to open more up uh for for
residents. Thank you everyone.
>> All right, thank you. Did I um miss
anyone?
>> Okay, let's move on to item three. Uh
additions and changes to the agenda.
Does anyone have any additions or
changes that they'd like to make?
Um,
I would like to make one
change. I would like to add an executive
session
on to our
um
executive section related to our union
uhou.
And I'd actually like to push item 8K to
the bottom so that we could have our
executive session and then come out and
talk.
Anybody have a problem with that?
>> No.
>> Okay. Does someone want to second that
so we can vote on them?
>> Second it. Jeff
>> Scott has seconded it. So I'll sit there
and I'll go through um anybody else
before we vote?
No. All right. An creme
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Uh Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I So five nothing. Um
okay. So uh we're going to move on to
item four, board and commission
presentations. Jim, do we have any board
and commissions presentations?
>> No.
>> Okay. Uh item five, appointments. Uh 5A
is the library board of directors.
In our packet, the board of directors of
the library wants to uh
inform us of their board that they
nominated. So we'll read them. Uh
Kathleen D. Roger's chairperson, Linda
Fish, Lisa Curts, Sharon Shvenko,
Brandy Salowski,
uh first alternate Jeffrey Ballard,
second alternate Doris Maldonado Mendes,
and the library director is Amy Orm
Ormalowski. Um,
anybody have anything that they'd like
to add to that just other than thanking
the library board for all their hard
work and everything they've done for the
years?
I don't think there's necessary for us
to ratify that unless somebody believes
we should
Okay.
Uh item six, resignations. Jim, do we
have any resignations?
>> No.
>> All right. That's a good month. Um item
seven, town administrators report. So
Jim, if you can
>> Sure.
>> Let's do it. Um and a lot of you are
aware of this just based on where you
sit in conversations between each other
on job postings and job hirings. Um
interviews for the assistant to the
assessor were conducted and uh later on
on the agenda you will have the
appointment of the recommended candidate
uh before you tonight. So, uh, remember,
you know, there were three, uh, job
openings and I think two of them are on
the agenda for approval tonight. Uh,
town administrator search committee met
last week, uh, to narrow down the field.
We did have a large group. It was over
20 resumes and applications we received.
The committee selected, it's actually
five candidates, one dropped out. And on
Thursday night, they will start um, the
first round of interviews with uh, that
group of candidates.
uh veterans field grant.
The items requested by DEC, which was a
resolution you passed last month, the
budget and the project narrative uh were
submitted. We're awaiting a letter of
intent and a financial assistance
agreement from them. This is uh on the
$250,000
legislative u appropriation grant. It's
not the $500,000 steep grant. And this
is the one that we're a little
timesensitive on. We have to have it
done by the end of uh by the end of
June. Um
so little adjustment to the second
paragraph there. I did get an email from
um the vendor on the playground. If you
remember back in uh back in November,
right before Thanksgiving,
uh we had asked to approve a uh purchase
order in the amount of about $25,000
so we can lock in prices uh for 2025
because they were going to go up
significantly on something like December
5th, I think. And so we did that and
then we did a subsequent PO for the
balance of that project again to lock in
the prices. Well, the vendor has
completed the playground.
Um, in other words, they've given us our
the items we requested in the colors we
wanted in the style uh we requested and
a number of other items. And the vendor
therefore, you know, it's been probably
six or seven weeks since that PO was
issued. Um, the vendor is not requesting
full payment. We thought we were going
to be able to defer this payment, but
they are requesting about half about
$101,000.
Now, the uh the hope is that with the
submission to DEC, we get the letter of
intent fairly quickly, maybe later this
week. Uh I have a call into them to
discuss if we could expedite it and we
can put in for the reimbursement and we
can kind of dovetail the two together.
But just to warn you folks, there is a
possibility that there may be a a gap
between the outlay and the reimbursement
uh for this small portion of the uh
relatively small portion of the project.
Uh the resolution associated with the
street grant was also submitted to DEC.
That's the the half million dollar one
for the uh other part of the project
on the senior transportation garage. We
did meet with the um contractor on this.
This is one of those uh projects through
the cog this contractor and uh Jeff and
Jeff were going to take a look at it.
There was there was a bit of a
discrepancy on what we needed to
complete the second floor. I was working
off a budget that Eric had originally um
produced which was not based on a a
buildout. It was based on a a building
that came from a kit. And so the numbers
were a little skew. We thought we needed
look like a lot more. And um so Jeff and
Jeff are going to look at it, put their
especially Jeff Murray his construction
cap on and uh we're going to look at
that. Maybe the number won't be as large
as we thought it was.
on the senior community center. The
electricians were there earlier, well
last week actually, middle of last week.
They installed a transfer switch um
which will facilitate the generator
system that's going to be installed
through the uh the um Murphy Blumenthal
USDA earmark grant. Um, and just so you
know, it it that's $273,000.
And in the interim when I wrote this
report to when I got it, I guess it was
either Thursday or Friday, USDA did send
me the application and the u there's
like a four-page um narrative overview
of the project in addition to the
application. And just so you know, this
goes with these legislative allocations.
Whether it's the state of Connecticut or
the federal government, they're a little
different animal than a normal grant you
apply for. Typically, you apply for a
grant. These kind of earmarks or
legislative appropriations are approved
and then the grant process starts. So,
yes, you have the money, but you got to
really kind of start at step one and do
the application and all that. So, so
that's true with this one, but that uh
it's good to know that the feds have
kind of moved on this and given us the
the paperwork.
Uh Longill Road Bridge DOT requested
with its consultant to move back the bid
opening, the deadline for that um to
January 22nd. It was originally
scheduled for January 8th. Their
thoughts there were uh they wanted to
roll in the temporary um traffic traffic
signalization for Hendy Road into the
project. Originally, it wasn't part of
the project and their thought was if
it's if it becomes an add-on, it becomes
an additional expense. So now the people
that are bidding on it will um will roll
it in and you know it's it's not a very
large part of the part part of the
project. So there might be some cost
savings there. So again, a delay on
that, but um that is a spring um
commencement on that project. Anyway,
uh department budgets, budget season's
coming. Um Chris is on the line, so
he'll correct me, but uh the budgets
were due January 8th. Most of them are
in. Some of them needed some help. So,
they were kicked back to the
departments, but we're we're look pretty
good on departmental budgets. And Chris
and I are going to sit down and start
working on uh I don't know what you call
it here, but we would call it the book.
Um over in Windham for you folks to uh
to work on.
State resident trooper on gun permits.
I'm happy to announce we did have a lag.
I don't know if you folks got any calls
from residents complaining that their
permit was delayed, but but they were
delayed. Uh the reason being the new
trooper um
Anderson was not hooked into the same
system as trooper Cook and therefore he
wasn't seeing the background. Checks
come in. We met before the holidays. We
just met after and that's been remedied
and I just issued uh those two uh
lagging permits uh the other day.
Em Bank, we've had some issues with uh
fraudulent checks. I don't know if you
you've heard this being issued. They
haven't they haven't been cashed,
but um they're checks that that are
dated after Eric's departure, yet they
have Eric's signature on them. So, we've
cleared up all the global administrator
credential issues. Chris and Kate and
myself are going to be sitting with uh
Mnt later this week and uh go over some
uh fraud protection measures. And it's
beyond the checks. It's kind of just a
townwide
um training course.
Uh some of you may have gotten some
calls. I'm going to take you back to the
December 19th wind rainstorm, there was
a bit of a communication glitch with
Eversource. I can tell you uh the when
the tree went down there on on Lake
Road, uh Eric and his people went out
and cut the tree and put it aside and
did put a ticket in with Eversource
because power was out there for quite a
bit. Um when we followed up later, I got
a call from the uh the chief, Chief
Mike, and um he was saying he was
getting calls and so I called Eversource
and they were saying, "No, we closed
that ticket. There's no we don't show
any outages." Well, I said, 'Look, I'm
standing here. It's pouring. You have
three bucket trucks out here. So, that
was resolved. And the woman who was the
town liaison kind of stayed with me all
weekend, gave me an update as the number
of outages went down. So, we hope
there's not a next time, but of course,
there will be a next time. Maybe it'll
be the process will be a little better.
We haven't had a lot of snow. There's
been some plowing, but the cold wet um
and kind of the frigid temperatures have
required public works to go out and do
some u mainly salting, some plowing. Um
specifically that storm of December
19th,
uh Eric Johansson, and he has a report
in here too. He may touch on it. Said
they're about halfway through the salt
supply for the season. He has ordered
more in anticipation of of need, but
says that we were we are still within
budget. It's not going to be an
overbudget thing.
Uh somebody mentioned the the POCD, the
plan of conservation development. Uh
Taiishi has submitted that. It's in your
packet. It's voluminous. I don't expect
you to look at it tonight.
planning and zoning is setting a public
hearing on it on March 17th, but they
are inviting you a month earlier at the
regular PZC meeting. Um, so you have
another month or month and a week or so
to review that document and give any
comments or ask any questions you might
want at planning zoning on February
17th.
Percy Cook Trail back in December, uh,
Kevin Grindle did meet with the board of
ed. they had some concerns
um about the location of the channel's
proximity to the the school and I've put
a u a memo in there regarding uh the
board of eds or the superintendent's
thoughts on that um after that
presentation.
Uh that's it except for I do want to add
since Elaine mentioned it, the welcome
sign. Uh the welcome sign is a little
bit different animal than the other
welcome sign. The other welcome sign was
on town property. There were some issues
with the surrounding rock wall that we
had to contact the state. This sign is
completely on state property and
therefore we do need to go with a
permit. The the state is okay with the
spot. They call it a clear area. So,
you know, we're not going to be able to
say where it goes. They're going to tell
us where it goes. I'm sure it's that's a
very open spot if you know by
um Shotty Mill there. It's and you're
you're coming eastbound. It's it's kind
of wide open there. But we have to
submit a permit um because it's their
land and uh but they're amendable to the
project. the where will be kind of our
negotiation with them. And that's about
it for me.
If any have any questions?
>> I do. Uh on the on the sign, is that
where the old dog pound is?
>> It's the old dog pound is not visible
from u from the road. So it'll be in
front of that. The old dog pound is our
property. If it was a little closer,
that would make easier. But
>> but that's that's where the sign is
going.
>> Yes. Yes. In front in front of the
>> Is that Shotty Mill or is that
>> Shaughty?
>> Is it Shotty?
>> What did I say? I'm sorry.
>> No, you said Shotty Mill. I'm just
>> What's the other road that runs up
there? I thought Shotty Mill was on the
opposite side.
>> Wales.
>> Wales. Okay.
All right. Um
and then the other just just because
the administrators report covers A, B,
C, and D. Um
the senior transportation garage was
Jeff, myself and Jim had a meeting with
the contractor that was selected from
EasyQ
and um there are some issues related to
that project that we have to resolve
from a design perspective and honestly
if we get to the item that's later in
item nine and that project review
committee that would be the perfect
project for them to review. Um
so there are issues.
>> What's the issue Jeff?
>> Um the primary issue is that the kit
that was made so you know how that is an
ingground that that's a two-story
building with the second floor level to
the driveway in the back. Um,
the roof line for the kit was going to
run basically down to the ground level
in the back for the for the garage. So,
even if we went with the way that it was
currently designed, there would be some
potential issues with that design.
So we had or I had made a recommendation
that we consider putting a second floor
on that and the the group was like it
makes sense that we just now have to
figure out what the amount of money that
we're we have available for that project
and then how much additional money would
be required for the second story and
then we have to go through this the
normal channels of uh finding the money
and then sitting there and getting it
approved by the town.
So, that project's going to be slightly
delayed in my mind. Jeff, anything from
your end from what you heard there?
>> No, I agree with you about the roof. I
mean, if somebody could just climb right
up on the roof from the back, which I
think is going to be problematic in the
future. I just don't want to see any
damage to those shingles or anything
that would happen. So, if we can get
that up and get, you know, and then for
storage space as well, cold storage, it
would be uh it would make sense to add
on since we already have a foundation
and most of the framing. it wouldn't the
costwise would be much less than putting
up a separate building for storage.
So you got that and then um
as far as the veterans field issue that
Jim raised um
Jim and I spoke about that earlier today
and I really don't
that is something that we're going to
work through because that vendor even if
they give us a bill it's going to be a
30-day payment issue. And so what
hopefully and what Jim was trying to let
us all know is that he's hoping that all
of the grant funding is available for
that so that we don't have any I mean we
could easily afford to pay it out of
what we have. But it's just hope that
all of it dumptales together. So you get
the grant funding and then you pay that
as needed. But it's also going to be
delayed. It's not going to be paid
immediately.
Just letting everybody know that.
Okay. So, uh, anybody else have any
questions for for Jim? Anything related
to items one through A through D?
Okay. Um, so we're in item 8E, uh,
status of the animal control services.
Jim, I know we were going out and trying
to sit there and talk to some of the
other towns, including Windom, as far as
when our animal control services
contract expires. as have we had any
luck related to any of those?
>> No, we haven't. I haven't heard back
from Mansfield and I talked to the town
engineer in Windham who recommended that
there the the expansion of that one um
is for staff. It's for the offices. He
doesn't think the the pound itself is
really a good fit for to take on
additional services. Um, and of course I
did speak with Hebrin who's in the
middle of redoing theirs, but something
came up on the 16th. Nikk is holding,
even though they just kind of kicked us
out on on June 30th, they're holding a
meeting um, regarding animal control.
So, my hope is I'm going to attend that
meeting on the 16th and there'll be a
bunch of other municipalities there and
I can get kind of a captive audience of
of people that could be willing to do
it.
>> Okay. If you can let us know that and
then if we have to sit there and and um
make some adjustments to our animal
control program, we should be willing to
do that to sit there and get a
uh a bare minimum of service related to
that issue available for the town so
that we don't fall outside of our
statutory requirements. So all right um
anything on 8E any additional items
anybody?
Okay 8F uh status of correct and action
plan for audit year ended June 30th
2024.
So uh I'll sit there and take this one.
Um I have uh been talking to Michael
let me make sure I pronounce his last
name correctly.
Michael Van de Verter Van Van Deventor.
Uh he is our auditor. Uh he works for
Mahonian Sable and um
just so everybody has the background and
then I'm going to share some emails with
you after this meeting. Um,
Eric prepared with the treasurer uh a
corrective action plan and right before
he left he submitted it. Uh, that
corrective action plan had really two
issues on it. One was specifically
related to the board of education and
that is something that um was not a
problem. Um, and the other one was an
issue that is really a town issue. And
I'm going to try to explain it as
clearly as I can. Um
the town treasurer, the prior treasurer
was attempting to um
reconcile
the expenditures for the board of
education so that she could post them
into the town's financial records.
And she was doing this with the
information that was available to her.
And that information that was available
to her made the project slightly
difficult or not slightly difficult,
impossible to do. And so the auditor
basically came in and sat there and
said, "You need to stop reconciling
uh to the school on a monthly basis
because you're it's causing problems
within the town's books." And
so the treasurer
um anyway the treasurer sat there and
Eric were wanted more and better
information so that they could actually
get it done and the treasurer was doing
it in such a way that it was causing
problems on our books. So the auditor
wanted that to stop and Eric wrote the
corrective action plan up as if it was
the board of education issue. And in
essence, it's not necessarily a board of
education issue. It's a town issue. So,
I had gone back to the auditor and I sat
there and said to the auditor that I
think we should change the corrective
action item to a town issue and that it
should be put in as the treasurer is
responsible for it and the
reconciliation should be done annually
so that we can sit there and deal with
the information. So, I do that. Then I
send the information that the auditor
does because the auditor after he and I
spoke last week, he wrote up a
corrective action plan. And because we
don't have a treasurer, the auditor put
Jeff Maguire's first selectman as the
person responsible for the corrective
action item. So, the auditor wrote that
and I sent it to u
the chairperson of the board of ed and
to Valerie. And then Valerie came back
and said that that's not how this should
go. This is I didn't I didn't write it
to be really honest. The auditor did and
all I want to do is a corrective action
plan needs to be filed. I told the
auditor that we're going to file the
corrective action plan that he drafted
and that what we're going to do is uh
put the new treasur hopefully if we can
appoint it today. Um and
that is where the corrective action plan
is. So it is still on hold and it is a
preliminary kind of thing that um you
know it's about information and if
information is provided timely and is
accurate then you can get stuff done. If
you can't get information timely and
accurately uh it doesn't get done
properly. So, and the other issue, just
so you all know, um,
well, you'll see the emails, so you can
sit there and look at the emails when I
sent them to you. Um, but I had talked
to Michael. Michael responded to me
after the superintendent's email came
back to us. Um,
he's a very easy guy to deal with. I had
no problem with what he wrote. And um
the corrective action plan is actually
the responsibility of the town and
hopefully we can get it submitted next
week.
Any questions?
Okay. Uh item 8 G, discussion and
possible action on the AS RFP for the
bathroom renovation.
So, as you all know, we have a
we have a current issue going out with
the bathroom project at the school. Uh,
there was a meeting held
um was it last Thursday,
Jeff? When was the meeting for the
building committee held?
>> Wasn't it Monday?
>> Monday the 5th.
>> Monday the 5th. Okay, that's correct.
Because I have stay That's right. I
stayed till Tuesday. Um so Monday the
5th there was a meeting held. Uh it was
a board of education building committee
that was held and that meeting
uh
well I guess I just have to sit there
and go through and tell you what I
believe is is happening. So right now um
the building committee met in June and
this is the this is your meeting after
that meeting Jeff Murray is that correct
the only meeting?
>> I I think the first meeting was July
21st if I'm going back to my records.
Okay. So July 21st
and
at that point in time including the
school the understanding was that this
project would be a design the project
was going to have engineering drawings
and then they those drawings were going
to go out to bid for construction
services.
>> Correct. And then Val had sent just a
Val had sent Eric and myself a uh email
saying Fuss and O'Neal was handling the
RFP process.
>> They were going to solicit the bids and
they sent it to Eric and myself and
asked to post it on the town's website
for RFPs.
>> Okay.
>> Um and but Eric for Eric said this is
not uh an RFP, so I'm not going to post
it on our website because there was no
drawings. There was no documentation
along with it. So at that time it was
not posted.
>> So it was a sentence. But the concept
was that this was supposed to be we were
paying the town was paying for design
services from Fuss and O'Neal and they
were going to do the drawings related to
the bathroom project.
>> Correct. And they were what I was told
that at that time that uh Fusset O'Neal
was handling the RFP process which they
were going to be soliciting bids for the
project.
>> Correct. And and and that's all in their
proposal and that's in what they have
been paid for
currently. So
>> all right. So, we're we're now at a
point where we're
the belief was that this was going to go
through an RFP and then in the summer
and before their September meeting the
when the superintendent announced the
contractors, it had morphed from a
project that was going to go to RFP to
now a designed build project. Right. So,
and just for everyone's reference,
>> well, just to clarify, Jeff, the design
build can be competitively bid. That's
what we did in the community. So,
>> well, that's what I was just going to
say.
>> So, so, so, so the thing was there,
there had to be a bid process. You
select a contractor, a general
contractor, and then they would oversee
the build based on the construction
drawings.
>> Okay. So, and just so everybody, that's
really where I was going to go is is we
put out the community center to a
designed build project. Like it was
quoted and it was bid as a design build.
Correct. I mean, because Scott, you and
Jeff Murray were on that committee.
>> Yep.
>> Right.
>> So, yeah, we we we put out our RFP and
we we I don't remember how many bids we
had. It was at least over half dozen.
>> Yeah, it was seven, I think. And then we
we rounded it down to three contractors
based on their qualifications.
>> Okay. And just so everybody understands
that process, if I remember, Jeff,
Adrien Mandeville drew preliminary
drawings
and those preliminary drawings were
given to the to the contractors and then
the contractors finalized the design.
>> Correct.
>> The contractor
>> once the contractor was selected, they
finalized but that was based on a
competitive RFP bidding process.
>> Right.
>> Okay. All those contractors brought back
bids.
>> Okay. So,
we are now at a meeting
of the building committee that has been
appointed by the board of education
and we're at a point where
their their attempt is to move this
project which this project is going to
cost somewhere about $450,000
of taxpayer money. So, let's get that
right because the community center was
done with grant funding. And since I've
been on the board of selectmen, we've
never spent that much money on a on a
project with taxpayer dollars other than
the
um and it's not taxpayer dollars. We we
did the roof project right when I got on
the board of Selectmen and that roof
project was $400 and some odd thousands
and 50% of it was paid for with state
funding.
>> Correct, Jeff? 500,000 because you have
to hold 45,000 back for contingency.
>> Okay? And
>> and you're always going to, it doesn't
matter what contract you have, you're
going to find there's going to be issues
and change orders and it's usually on a
magnitude of 10%. And that's what we
found out with the community center and
other projects we've had.
>> All right. And Carol, I just because you
have the history of the community, I
want to sit there and understand, do you
remember any other
projects that we've done within the town
with tax dollars that have been this
significant?
>> I think it was just maybe an the
addition to the school.
>> Okay.
>> When we did the library and the computer
room.
>> Okay. So,
>> and and that one
>> I have something to put in there, too,
though.
>> You say it's tax dollars and not grant
money.
>> But the reason they've got this money
that they put into the capital fund is
that they got grant money for other
things within the school and then they
had money left over. So, it really is
still grant money that they had gotten.
So, it's not directly tax dollars.
And the other thing is that you just
mentioned a few minutes ago that the
senior transportation garage that
contractor was just selected from the
ECQ. It wasn't done with the RFPs, that
kind of thing either. So it's not always
done that way. I'm sure that's just as
expensive, if not more than these.
>> EasyQ is a state-run program.
Yeah,
>> it's it's a
>> this is going through Fuss and O'Neal
and they have selected the people.
>> It's okay. So, I'm just going to I'm
just going to sit there and tell you
that that that the information that I
heard at the meeting from the building
committee was that they were going to go
out and try to find competitive quotes
by sending the um chairperson of the
board of education
out and well, not out. She's she's
communicating with two construction
companies that she met at the board of
education state convention and she's
going to try to get quotes. Is that what
you heard, Ann?
>> It is.
>> That is what you heard.
>> And I've also requested to be at that
walkth through.
>> Yeah. I'm telling you, I don't feel real
comfortable with that.
>> That's why I wanted to go because I
don't even know if these contractors are
qualified.
>> It's not even
Have they been qualified and vetted?
Jeeoff, do you know?
>> No, not to my What I asked, somebody
asked Caitlin, I think, at the board of
education meetings like, "Where are you
finding these contractors?" He said,
"Well, they were business cards from two
vendors that had tables set up at the
Cape Convention." And that was her
response.
>> There yes,
>> but we don't know. We don't we don't so
so when we have an RFP process and when
I was on the committee for the community
center when these RFPs were submitted
these contractors provided a booklet and
a huge description of what their
capabilities were current projects and
past projects they have completed. So,
as a committee, we were able to reach
out to some of these towns and
customers, past customers of these of
these firms, and we asked them if they
were happy with their performance.
>> Um, with this situation, you don't know.
You really don't know if they're
qualified or you have no way to vet
them. Uh, that was that was one way we
were able to vet contractors and dismiss
some of them because we didn't feel they
were a good fit or they just their
performance was not at a level that we
would expect.
Every contractor brought back at least a
25page pamphlet with all their
accomplishments,
their insurance, everything that they
were involved with
with the number for the project.
>> Well, I I just I I am extremely
um I mean, listen, we have to work
better together. There is no doubt that
we have to work better together with the
school. We have to work better together
with the board of finance. We have to
work better together.
But this project is is not
going to end up in the best interests of
the community. And it's going to be in
violation of the board of education
procedures. It's going to be in
violation of of town purchasing
procedures. And and we all have to
remember and I know Ann will not it's
not a board of education building. It is
a town property flat out.
>> The board of education is in charge of
that. And they
>> board of education is is a is an entity
within they don't own any personal
property. They don't do any taxation. We
have to work with them. But you have to
know and we'll I'll agree to disagree.
I'll agree to disagree. It is a town
property. the town owns the building.
And when you do these capital projects,
the town has to be included in the
project. And I know I heard stuff
related to the the roof project, but I
remember coming in and Carol, I remember
Adrian working on that roof as well. You
know, he was on that committee at that
point in time. So, which goes into what
what we need to do. We need to ask again
and we need to ask as a board of
selectmen, as a group that that we work
together just like we did when we did
the solar project. We we we forced
ourselves into that equation. We
shouldn't have had to. We should never
have to. This is really, you know, it's
it's disheartening to me that we have to
try to keep doing this, that we have to
keep forcing ourselves into the
situation when we should be working
together and we should work as nicely as
we possibly can for the best interest of
the community because this is about the
best interest of the community and about
the community understanding that we're
protecting their tax dollars.
So
>> Jeff, my my my biggest concern is it's
not the BOE. I mean, they do have
policies and and and when I asked the
superintendent and the board education
chairman um about these policies and why
they weren't following them, I had they
just said they chose not to. And I
asked, "Well, where does it say you can
not follow your policies?" And I never
got a response at that meeting, which
concerned me. And what concerns me is
that when we sat on that building
committee for the community center as a
committee, we solicited bids and we
reviewed those bids. And I'm concerned
that this committee for this bathroom
never received competitive bids and we
were never able to evaluate them and
select a contractor. This has all been,
you know, they went to I went to Fuss
and O'Neal. Fuss and O'Neal never had a
competitive bidding process for these
subcontractors. They just selected
people that they've worked with in the
past. Now, is that good for Fuss and
O'Neal? Yes. Is it good for the town?
No. So, we need to make sure that we're
doing the best thing for the tax
dollars. And I was trying to explain
that in the meeting, but I wasn't
getting the answers that I was looking
for. So,
you know, I think a change of course is
probably going to be needed at some
point here. Um, but uh I mean I'm I'm
frustrated because it's just I've asked
I I I was under the impression in in
July and August that there was going to
be competitive bids coming back from
Fuss and O'Neal and then when I told
there was no bidding, you know, they
just basically selected contractors, I
was very disappointed.
>> Can I just ask a question though? I've
been trying to look up with the Easy IQC
and it Prague is the one who oversees
that and basically they have pre-bid
contracts. Correct.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. And then the design build is what
we did for the community center.
Correct.
>> Correct. So, we hired someone and let's
say it wasn't a fuss and O'Neal company,
but we hired a company who then took
bids.
They acted as contractor and
subcontracted out the different
things that we needed in the community
center. Correct.
>> Are you referencing back to Easy IQ?
Well, I'm I'm just asking during the
design build, is that the process? So,
the
>> what the design build and and Jeff and
and Scott, correct me if I'm wrong. In
the design build, what they did, Carol,
was they laid out a preliminary very
rough sketch of what they would what
they want they the building was going to
end up like and then they they put that
out there and then people bid on the the
basics of the design and they they then
needed to finish the design to bring it
to construction.
>> Correct. We had we had actually Ed Sri
went out and did some survey work and
and basically set pins for the footprint
of the building. Um we had a preliminary
drawings. We had a square footage,
number of stories, type of siding, type
of roof, basically a general
specification with the way we wanted
this building to look and they came back
to us with prop we got back proposals.
>> Okay. And then the
>> complete proposals for a complete
building
withdrawing stuff the whole thing.
>> So the company that was selected, they
were the ones that hired the
subcontractors. Correct.
>> Correct.
>> Numbers. Every one of them numbers
>> for from their own contractors for a
complete building. Everyone went through
the whole process. And and the whole
thing is you don't usually, you know,
you don't have to select the cheapest
contractor. You have to say the best
suitable contractor, which is the one
you believe is going to do the best work
and do the best value for your money.
>> What the school has done when they
picked Fuss and O'Neal
because that contractor is works with
schools a lot, which is different from
other general contractors. And
>> I I understand that, Ann. But what they
should have done is they should have
reached out to three or four electrical
firms and got the best pricing. What
they did is they just reached out to
people they were familiar with and got
quotes, which that is if we're talking
about our taxpayer dollars, that is not
>> O'Neal did that.
>> FA O'Neal did not solicit competitive
bids, which I was told otherwise. See,
when you read I I could send you emails.
I have emails from the superintendent
and the board of education chair saying
there was fuss and O'Neal was doing the
RFP process. I asked probably two weeks
ago can you at that me for the Monday
meeting I said can you please include
these competitive quotes that Fussen
O'Neal did during the RFP process. The
superintendent responded to me there was
no competitive bidding on this pro on
this project.
>> And you and and listen this
>> and that that's that's I have the I
think you were CCed on I think the whole
board was CCD on that email. This this
is this is
if I can ex I I'm going to give you my
take and you guys can tell me if I'm
wrong, but I'm just telling you from the
documentation I've seen
the committee and the board of education
were moving this project forward as they
were going to get an engineered drawing
of this project. So when it first
started out was I'm gonna get Fuss and
O'Neal to do the drawings and the design
work on the bathrooms.
>> Correct.
>> That's how it started. That's what the
first contract says. That's what the
first proposal says is you know it goes
through the design work. It goes through
um you know the basic information the
design work. It goes through the bidding
process and it goes through construction
administration. That was the first
proposal. So in essence, we were going
to use Fuss and O'Neal as the
engineering design team and they were
going to assist the group and send it
out for bidding. But
>> that's what I was told. That's what the
committee was told.
>> We pivoted. The board of education
pivoted. the superintendent pivoted and
then started talking about in August and
September that this was a designed build
project, which means that Fussen O'Neal
was going to get paid for the design
work and then be the general contractor
on the project.
>> Right. Yes.
>> I'm just telling you there's there's
there's a pivot that happened in the
summer
and there's a new proposal out there
that is a Fen O'Neal design build
proposal for $390,000
and we have a contract for a proposal
for design services for $48,000 that
we're still paying. So now everyone's
you're upset at me because I won't pay I
won't release and I'm be really honest
and if the board wants to release that
money you guys can vote to release the
money. I'm not releasing the money to
Fuss and O'Neal because we have
potentially two different proposals. We
have one proposal that's this. I'm going
to do all your design work. I'm going to
put this out to bid. I'm going to let
you see the bids and then you're going
to select the contractors that that are
the right contractors for this job.
Now, I have this whole other proposal
that's over here and it says it's a
design build proposal. And I'm like,
well, where's the money that we've spent
for the bidding services of $3,900 and
why are we paying them construction
services money some $11,000?
like who is approving this? So, what
happened was I was in for signing checks
and I saw this and I'm like I told Jim
and I told the treasurer and I told you
we can't send any more checks to Fuss
and O'Neal until we as a community come
together and understand really what
we're doing.
And I'm just sorry this project is not
managed in an effective way for the
community and I I we need to talk about
it and we need to decide what we're
doing about it because it is a townowned
building. We have to work with the board
of education. There's no doubt about
that. Has to be a a collaborative
effort. If it's not collaborative, this
doesn't work. But right now, I just I'm
I am extremely concerned. I'm I'm I'm
hesitant that we're we're not managing
town resources properly.
So,
>> I just want to see I just want to see a
fair and open bidding process. That's
all I want to see. I want to make sure
that this stuff is competitively bid.
And another another issue is that the
superintendent told me multiple times
that we don't have people on these
boards that are capable of of of doing
these type of services. And this was
something that I spoke to Jeff Magcguire
about probably about six months ago is
putting together a committee of
professionals that live in town that
want to serve on a committee to review
these type of projects. So, what I did
is I've reached out to people that have
general contractors in town, people that
own their own contracting companies, the
people that are more than qualified to
do these reviews. And I've reached out
to some electricians, some plumbers,
general contractors, uh, excellent civil
engineer, and just to see if they would
be willing and they're and they're
telling me yes, wholeheartedly, yes, I
will help serve and help and help you
with these projects. So, we do have a
pool of resources that will help out
just like we did with the building
committee. Um, because these these
people want to make sure that these
projects are successful.
And, you know, I would sit on that
committee as well. I would even chair it
and let and let the and let these people
weigh in um on these drawings because if
you're an electrician, let me just say
when you're looking at these drawings,
an electrician, if you look like you
have to do this job, you're going to
look at those drawings from the
perspective of an electrician. same as a
plumber, same as a civil engineer. And
they're going to make comments and
they're going to make notes of things
that are missing. And I and I'm and I'm
telling the board, I'm telling the
public here, you need to make sure you
dot your eyes and cross your tees
because if you don't and you start
missing things, you're going to start
getting change orders. And those change
orders will add up. So, you need to make
sure that these drawings, I mean,
they're not going to be perfect. That's
why I'm saying you need at least a 10%
contingency, but you need to make sure
you capture most of these errors early
on and you get them corrected before
this goes out to bid. And I'm saying
they need to be 90 to 95% complete and
accurate.
>> So, did Fuss and O'Neal do that?
>> Well, that was part of my concern at the
Monday's meeting with the board ed. I
mean, when I when we first met in uh
July, I noticed a bunch of things like
some door interferences and some
lighting that was that was not placed in
the correct locations. And I asked for
those to be changed. And I also asked
for to look into some of these uh water
valves and things that control the
faucets to see if we could do like a
hybrid thing that was a manual with a um
you know, an automatic uh switching that
it's like a let's just say a a bathroom
a toilet or something that you know that
would have a manual flush handle. But if
somebody went and used that um that
toilet or that urinal and they don't
flush it after a minute, it would
automatically flush just because I I
talked to a bunch of actually I talked
to a bunch of elementary school students
just to see how they thought about the
bathrooms and they a lot of them said
they don't use them because a lot of the
kids don't flush. They just make a mess
out of them. So I was trying to do some
things to to to improve the design, make
it a little bit better. But when we got
to that Monday meeting, I looked at the
drawings that were updated and none of
those changes were even on there. So, I
was I kind of felt like my time was
wasted at that July meeting because none
of my none of my none of the changes
were even implemented on those drawings.
>> Well, that goes into my whole thing
about having stamp drawings. Those
drawings that we saw at that meeting
were dated June 28th.
>> Well, I had ones that said September on
them, the ones I was looking at.
>> So, that's why that was way after the
meeting that that we had. So I was I was
I was concerned that those changes
weren't implemented.
>> So
>> some of the most important stuff of that
project are the actual drainage, the
pipes, the drainage which is causing the
problems. None of that is even on that
those prints. The grades, the grades to
the septic to the fields, none of the
grades, nothing is there. That whole
piping system is going to have to be
taken apart very carefully.
The problem is start when you start saw
cutting and jackhammering that cast
iron, it's it's going to shatter and it
has to be carefully done. And it should
also it should also be in the quote. It
also should be in the quote if we find
extra damage down the road like how much
per foot it's going to cost to excavate
and repair
>> because we don't know
>> because you I mean the the the way this
project is set right now it's the
equivalent of you just calling up a
roofer out of the river east news
bulletin and saying come put a roof on
my house and then just you know you're
not I mean anybody that is going to get
a roof put on their house even on this
meeting right now wouldn't you call two
or three contractors and get some
competitive quotes,
but we haven't done that in this with
this this project. We've just gone out
to one engineering firm and we've gotten
one quote with no competitive bidding.
So, we could be in for a surprise. I
mean, they're telling us this amount of
money, but if they find things in the
floor and damage and extra work, I mean,
this could this could steamroll into
hundred thousands of thousands of
dollars more.
So, it's I'm really concerned. There
needs to be a lot of information about
that piping on those prints and how
they're going to do it, what stages
they're going to do it, and that should
be all listed on on a print like that,
especially for this.
>> Well,
>> so there are no updated plans is what
you're telling me. Bus O'Neal didn't
give us anything updated, give the
school anything updated. Well, we were
spo we were supposed to have a meeting
and I sent um I tried in September,
August and I tried sending out emails to
the to the building to this to the
bathroom committee saying, you know, we
need to have the second meeting and I
tried and I I put out multiple dates and
and the the chairman just says I think
it was too premature to do this because
we don't have our drawings back yet. Um,
you know, I and I sent texts to her on
the the board ad chairman on in August
saying that, you know, we need this bid
process. We have to follow a bid process
on this and we have to get these
drawings approved.
>> So, the new drawings actually could be
available. They It was just too early at
that point in time.
>> I I got mixed I got mixed signals,
Carol. I mean, I I asked I asked uh the
the the the superintendent a couple
times uh for the drawings, and she said
she had them, but the board of ed had to
vote to release them. And I said, "Well,
that seems silly because I'm on the
bathroom committee. Why shouldn't I be
able to see the drawings?" And they
weren't released to me until about a
month ago.
>> Okay. Because Fuss and O'Neal could have
in there with the price and everything
anticipating that that iron pipe that's
under the concrete is going to be
damaged when they start removing. Right.
>> But there's no there's no there's no
statement of work in there like what
they're responsible for and what the
town would be responsible for if they
find more damage.
and Carol it opens up a can of worms
because if you if you find damage down
the pipeline like I said if you
jackhammer and it gets damaged and we
have to excavate more I mean you're
talking hundreds of thousands of dollars
more and I don't even know to this day
what the end point of is of where the
excavation and this the the the point of
uh construction actually starts
>> but if it is cast iron pipe there's a
really good chance that most of it will
have to be replaced because that's
>> correct
>> pretty old
could be damaged. And
>> um I don't know, I was just looking up
it looks like Fuss and O'Neal have done
quite a bit of work even for the state.
So
I don't know. I mean
>> I don't I don't think I don't think it's
>> it has nothing to do with
qualifications. It has to be doing.
>> It's not where It's not where anyone I
think is saying that they have an issue
with Fuss and O'Neal or that Fuss and
O'Neal can't get to a good plan.
My issue is that it's just never gone
out to competitive bid and it's and and
the document the plan
and and I'm not a I mean I'm an
accountant. I'm not a construction
person. So, I'm not going to sit there
and tell you I read the plans and
understand exactly what they're doing.
But I just keep asking the same things.
Is it a stamped plan? And then if it's a
stamped plan, people like Jeff Murray or
Eric Sanderson or Ed Serizley or uh
Adrien Mandeville need to get in a room
and look at the plans for the benefit of
the community to say they have
everything captured on the plan. And
then when you have everything captured
on the plan, you you sit there and then
go to bid.
>> Yeah. And the and the and the board of
ed actually has a bidding procedure.
They actually, you know, they have a
they said there's a list in the office
of qualified contractors that they're
supposed to go off of. There's supposed
to be sealed bids in envelopes that are
received at the school and they are open
and public. That is their policy and
that and that and that mirrors our our
RFP policy. And I don't care which one
we use. I just want to make sure we have
sealed bids and they're open and public
just like all of our other projects. I
mean, the only the only thing, Carol,
that I know that we've gone sole source
and we've never competitively bid is the
air packs for the fire department.
That's the only thing that I can
remember that we actually went out and
just said, "Okay, we're going to buy
these." Because there's a com and
there's a justification for that because
all the other all the other fire
departments in the area use the same air
packs. So, they they had a justification
and we thought that was reasonable. But
that's the only time I remember that
we've never competitively bid a product
or a service.
>> Okay. So again, the design build, even
though we're hiring the head contractor,
we see all of the subcontractor bids,
too. In that RFP process, is that
>> Well, we we would see we would get
quotes from multiple general
contractors.
>> So it would be so fuss and O'Neal wanted
to be the GC. they wanted to go out and
hire the plumbers, the electricians,
this, you know, all the the the tilers,
all the trades that they need, that
would be rolled up by Fuss and O'Neal
and they would provide a bid. Another
contractor, let's just say the same
contract did the community center wanted
to bid on it. They would roll up all
their trades and they would provide a
bid. So, we would review those bids from
these general contractors
and then and then select our contractor
based on the bids, their expertise, and
the projects that they've done. So, we
may we may just select one that might be
the second lowest bidder because they've
done a lot of bathroom work in schools
and they're experts at it. So, and they
may be experts in uh remediating cast
iron pipe. So, those are certain things
that would be in that bid package that
we would look at.
>> Okay. But we wouldn't see each of the
independent subcontractor
bids that Fuss and O'Neal received if
they were the selected GC. Correct.
>> Yeah. which I didn't have a I didn't
have a problem with them being the GC,
but I just wanted to make sure that
these subcontractors that they bid were
competitively bid that we had three
electric electrical outfits bidding on
it, three tiling contractors, three
plumbers, um just to make sure that the
town is getting the best value for their
tax dollars because we don't know if the
people they selected is actually they
they're they're probably more than
qualified, but are they are they the
lowest price? They could be $50,000
higher than competitive contractors.
>> And I understand that, but Buzzen O'Neal
is probably picking contractors that
they've worked with before. Correct. And
they know they do a good job.
>> Is that correct?
>> Okay.
>> That does not follow that does not
follow our purchasing policy in town to
do our That does not follow the RFP
process of the school or the town. what
we've done compet what we've done in the
past
>> then we just need to bring this to the
BOE to the board of ed instead of us
discussing it tonight bring it to the
board of ed
>> and we have we have
>> and listening issue from our standpoint
in my standpoint is if we don't discuss
it here
>> we don't get to discuss it in
>> I requested that they have a tri board
meeting with the board of education
the board of finance and the board of
selectmen and that was rejected in. So
we're having this discussion here so
that we can the the people in the
community can understand that we're
attempting to do our job
>> and I'm frustr I'm frustrated because
>> we do our job but the board of ed is the
ones doing the job and I know Jeff that
you go to the board of ed meetings and
talk as the exeicio member. So, you can
do that and they will talk to you there.
Can I just ask a question?
I've tried locating our RFP process. Can
you tell me where that's right? I know
we have a purchasing process in the
charter. I've looked at that, but can
you tell me where our written RFP
process is?
>> I can't tell you that, but I can tell
you from past
past processes that we have always done
an RFP process for any major capital
project.
>> The only thing I'd like to say is that I
think that we as a board if we do not
have a written RFP process, we need to
work together.
>> I agree.
>> Make one because then everyone has to be
on that same page with us. We can't say
past practice is this or past practice
is that.
>> Correct. But
yeah, if we go to the board of education
policies, the board of education has a
policy for an RFP process.
>> And is it a written policy that
>> Yes, it is. It is a written policy that
say that they are supposed to select
they supposed to
>> written policy. Carol sealed bids.
>> Where can I find that?
>> I can find it for you in just a second.
>> Okay. Thank you.
Um,
yeah, that's I mean that's pretty much
what I'm say. It's just, you know, we
just need to follow a competitive
bidding process.
>> And
>> I I don't care if the school does it. I
don't care if the school does it or if
the town does it. I don't care. We just
need to do it. And I've been frustrated
because I've tried to contact the board
of ed chairman and I've contacted the
superintendent and I've, you know, I've
tried to schedule the second meeting to
go over these drawings and we had this
meeting Monday, last Monday before we
even had our committee meeting. Like
we're not, our business is not done even
with going through the
>> 3323.
>> 3323. Are you is that the answer to me,
Scott?
>> That's that's one of them. Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> There is another one, but I mean I'm
kind of willing to overlook that one,
but it says that the board of education
is tasked to spend their budgeted uh
budgeted amounts.
What'sever is in their budget for their
that year is what they're um tasked to
spend. And anything outside of that is
is not their responsibility. It says it
right in the policy.
So something that's in their capital
reserves, you're saying is not
>> that's that's a town owned account and
it's it's controlled by the board of
finance,
but it says that they are not in control
of that account.
But I don't care at this point. All I
want is competitive bidding process.
That's all I want. That's all I like to
see. And I think everybody in town would
agree to that.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So certainly would. Can we ask to
see that?
I asked I asked them I asked the
superintendent and the board of ed chair
at Monday's meeting why they were not
following their policy and they said 'Oh
we've just we've decided we're not doing
that and I said 'well what tell what
show me where it says in your policy
manual that you don't have to follow
your policy Carol
>> I didn't get I didn't get an answer the
the direction that is is heading is that
on and the board of ed next board of
education meeting they're going to vote
to move to a design to build program
because they haven't voted on this. This
is all this is this is where this whole
thing goes off the rails for me is it
was definitely set up in the first
proposal that has been approved because
I asked who approved and who signed the
first proposal. So the first proposal I
don't have a signed contract yet. The
treasurer's office doesn't have a signed
contract yet. So Robert England was
asking for a signed contract. So, we
don't have the first signed proposal and
they're now moving
before they have the their own committee
all in agreement that everything is is
is accurate. They're moving to a design
to build program with with Fuss O'Neal,
which in essence, Carol, cuts out
all of the bidding process.
So that's what's up for Wednesday is
Wednesday's meeting at the board of
education will be a vote on a design to
build program for the bathroom.
>> Okay. So you said that there was a
$48,000 check to Fuss and O'Neal that
you stopped
>> No being released, right?
>> No, there's a $48,000 contract
>> of that contract which has four phases.
It has
the first phase is basically analysis.
The second phase is design. The the
third phase is bidding and the fourth
phase is construction management. The
whole contract for that was $48,000
approved by the board of education,
approved by the board of finance.
$42,000 of that has been paid. So we're
into stage four, which is construction
management.
It's only $5,000 that I'm holding, Darl.
Like that I am that I am personally
sitting there saying we shouldn't pay
that.
>> And the other to be to be really honest,
they sat there and said that they might
get an $11,000 credit if they move to
the design to build for the construction
services.
I mean, it's it's
>> the other policy is 3320.
>> It's that talks about purchase orders.
And I can read this really quick. says,
"The superintendent of schools shall
develop and administer the purchasing
program of the school district with such
activities as ordering, verifying
receipt of orders and distribution of
materials received. The superintendent
is authorized to issue purchase orders
upon the receipt of requisitions where
quotes or formal bids are not required.
And then when purchase orders are for
items included in the budget and when
sufficient funds are available for the
particular budget account. When purchase
orders are for items not included in the
budget or for items which would exceed
the amount within a budget account, they
may be only made with the approval of
the superintendent of schools who in
turn is limited by the provisions of the
board policy. Over expenditures of
specific budget accounts will be shown
in the monthly financial statement.
So this the purchase order system must
be filed as established with exceptions
to be made only by the approval of the
board of education. And the final line
is purchases or contracts made outside
of the approved purchasing system shall
not be the responsibility of the board
of education.
That is right in their PO policy.
>> Be clear.
>> Okay. But Jeff, I think you said that
the board of ed and board of finance
both approved this
>> the $48,000 original contract.
>> They both approved.
>> Approved it. Oops.
>> So, just so you understand what is
happening, the last $5,000 on that
contract,
there is a one check for like $2,700
that is being held.
I mean, because Carol, I can't
understand as an accountant, right? just
as my accounting world. Why would I ever
have approved those items on that on
those invoices if I was going to change
the proposed terms of my contract?
So, so there's a check. There's only
$5,000. This is not like it's
the whole entire amount. This is $5,000
that's in section four of the contract.
And I think I've shared it all with
everybody, didn't I?
>> So you're saying change to a design
build now at this point in time is what
you're saying.
>> Correct. They
>> passed everything, Carol. That's it's
it's passed all the processes. We're up
to building now.
>> We're up to the construction management
part.
>> Construction management.
>> I mean, I think at this I mean, at this
point, I just want to see this project
done. And I think it can get done this
summer if we start now. We put an RFP
and like I I feel very strongly that an
RFP should go out. It would take 45
days. We would select a contractor. The
the committee, the bathroom committee
would select the contractor reference, I
mean recommend that contractor to the to
the boards, the board of finance and the
board of education for approval and then
get those approvals at that time. We
have approximately six months right now
before that school is closed and we're
able to do construction. So, we have
plenty of time right now. But I just
don't want this to slip any further
because we sat around the summer and we
did nothing about this,
>> right?
>> So, we need to move in the right
direction and I think we just need to
change our tactics or do something
different because what we're doing now
is just not working.
>> No, that's been going on since the
middle of the summer in 24.
>> Actually, the
Yes, the middle of the summer of 24. I
was trying to think of the timeline,
Scott, and you you were right.
>> I'm I I myself think that we the town
needs to pivot myself.
>> Okay. So, we had our discussion on this.
Is there any action that we want to take
related to this?
>> Yeah.
I think
>> the town building, Jeff, I believe that
the town needs to pivot now
and and do something about this this
issue.
>> It's not being handled correctly.
>> So, and and just because I was having
problems with the dates, the original
contract was uh uh July 17th, 2024.
>> Yeah.
I mean, I think we need to put this
building committee together. I think
what we should do and I think this is
this is and I'm not this is what the
board of education should do at their
next meeting is let's get this out for
RFP. I'm told there is an RFP written
for this project. We have let's get
together. Let's get these drawings
approved. Let's get this out on the
website for RFP. I don't care if the
school does it or if we do it. Get these
sealed bidins bids in here and let's
select the contractor and let's start
going on this.
This has been way too long.
And I don't I I'm not saying anything
bad about the board of education. I
mean, this is not in their wheelhouse.
That's why I'm saying we need to put the
right people on this and and oversee
this project to make sure that this gets
done.
I've already I talked to an electrician.
And I know Jeff Murray has also talked
to some people.
>> I just wanted to see if it was doable. I
mean, more people are more than willing
to serve on this committee.
>> I mean, it's their town. It's their
town. Their kids go to this town. They
want to make sure that this bathroom is
done.
>> I mean, we have people that have vested
interest in making sure this project is
finished.
One thing nobody's taking into
consideration right now, the the
important pro uh part of this whole
thing is the drainage to the septic
system. That's what the problem is. The
bathrooms are something that's going to
be done at the same time if they get
done at the same time. But the drainage
has to be changed.
That's that's what the the piping is
really the issue here.
So, just to remind you so that you guys
can all go to your uh reference, I sent
the documents out to everybody on 1229.
So I sent it to I requested a tri board
meeting on the 29th and in that you'll
have
>> the first Fuss and O'Neal proposal, the
second Fuss and O'Neal proposal, the
construction drawings and um information
from the finance department about
payments.
So anyway,
do we do we what what are we going to
do? Are we going to do anything as a
board to sit there and direct this in a
more positive manner or are we going to
try to sit there and give it one more
college try with the board of education
and sit there and see if we can move
forward in the proper direction?
>> What's the board
>> in that last meeting, Jeff? I lost hope
that anything good is coming out of that
meeting with the board of education. I
heard nothing there that was any good.
that fuss and O'Neal guy. Um, my
grandson could do a better job than that
guy did.
>> Oh,
>> horrible.
>> Um, I just think we need to hit the We
just need to go on a tactical pause on
this project.
>> Something's got to happen different.
>> Okay. I think I think we need to have
this we need to have this final meeting
with this with the committee and then
get these drawings finalized and and
bring them if we're talking tonight and
we're going to appoint people to this
building committee next month. I'm
thinking we that would be our first
order of business and we just get the we
make sure that these drawings are 100%.
We get them out to RFP no later than the
end of February. They come in, we select
the contractor and you're going to be
ready to go by June.
I
>> don't think the prints are accurate,
Jeff. Well, that's why I want to have
them reviewed by the committee. I mean,
I'm not a plumbing expert. I'm not I'm I
mean, I'm electrical engineer, but I I
mean, you need a trades person to really
look at those drawings to really see how
and make sure all the notes are on that
drawing. Make sure the notes are there.
Make sure all the specs are there. Um
because
>> there's no elevations to the fields.
None. There's no
>> civil have a civil engineer take. We
have a civil engineer.
>> There's no elevations to all the pipes
inside the building. That's that's all
key to this.
>> And this is not anything against the
board education. We're this is a this is
a help. This is to help. This is to help
>> a health issue right now.
>> Well, no help. I want to help I want to
help move this along and get this done.
I think the board of education does, but
we have people that are willing to help.
So, let's let's engage them. Let's get
them on this. Let's just get let's get
them involved.
>> Okay. So, then is the board just wanting
to
Are we going to do anything or not?
>> Like I said, I think we need to do a
tactical pause on this till we
>> Okay, so how does that tactical pause
work? I mean,
>> I call it tactical pause because we just
need we need just everybody just needs
to put their pens down and, you know,
tools down and just take a look at this
thing because I, like I said, I don't
think those drawings are complete. Um, I
think there's still things missing in
them that we need to we need to address.
>> Okay. So, um
>> I I believe Jeff that we should get up
together that committee that Jeff Murray
and I was were talking about.
>> We could do a lot of this. We could do a
lot of this. I mean, even now I could do
this via email. We could send the
drawings to all these to these
individuals and we can get we can get
feedback
>> and then we can all that feedback could
get rolled up by the bathroom committee
and we can, you know, move forward. And
then in the meantime, we start this RFP
process and we make sure that we have a
good price on this project.
Okay. Which I hate to say it, but you
know, it's just I I it's more work for
us, but I really didn't want to get
involved, but I think we have to at this
point.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you experience
>> I mean, listen, I you know, information
is not a very good is not very easy to
come by. Do you have the most recent
drawings in a PDF?
>> I do, but I don't know if they've been
changed since. I don't know if there's
any revisions.
>> Okay. Yes.
>> So, and I was I was I I was told not to
reach out to Fuss and O'Neal
>> even as a member of the committee. I was
told to that I had to go through the the
board of ed chairwoman or the
superintendent.
So, I can't converse with them directly.
>> So, let's see if we make a resolution to
to request. I mean, because all we're
doing is request because again, we have
to work with them. It's either we put a
whole pause on this. I mean, if you want
to put a whole pause on it, I mean, the
only pause is it's a financial pause.
I mean, then it's going to be a problem.
Do we have the board of finances
approval on this or not? So, no, you're
just going to It's really a tricky
slope. It's either we all work together
or we don't.
>> I'm offering
>> if we don't work together, then then
it's just sitting there saying we own
the building, you can't do it.
>> I don't want to do that. I want to work
with I'm I'm offering I'm offering a
hand to the to the board of education to
say look we are here to help you. We're
not here to impede you when we want to
get this done.
>> So So the board of education has a
meeting on Wednesday.
We're going to sit there and and request
that the board of education work with us
to sit there and and and
actually I will ask them to have another
committee meeting and we should bring
additional people to the committee
meeting to review the documents. I'll
ask for the documents to be reviewed in
advance of the meeting. I would like the
latest revision of those drawings and
then that way those people that we put
on this committee, even if we have to
have a special meeting next week
>> to appoint these people, let's do it. I
don't care. I want to get this done.
>> Okay?
>> So, if if they're willing to do that,
let's do this and and let's get these
drawings reviewed by our experts in
town.
>> All right. So, I my plan is to attend
that meeting. I will ask nicely that
that's what happens and we will sit
there and see where it goes. But
eventually
>> if we're told and if we're told no
>> then I think it's in our fever that we
should probably do something about it.
>> All right. We talked a lot about this
and actually I think it's good that we
actually talked about it because you
know there's been very little discussion
related to this out there at any given
meeting that's of value and is not
curtailed and it's just like I think we
should still have the tri board meeting
because I think the other boards you
know like the board of finance has um
has you know we have a joint authority
with them they have an authority we have
an authority over the the operations of
the town. They have an authority over
the finances of the town and the school
and the board of education has an
authority over the education and the
maintenance and the management of that
building which I do respect an but in
the end it's our building and and and
it's a lot of money and if you think
about it in a very simple way that
bathroom project is going to cost half
of the community center building.
It's a lot of money.
>> Center isn't finished yet. So,
>> I I don't really care.
>> I know. Still still I don't care, Carol.
It's 50% of what we spent to build that
building. And we did it for a reason.
And I love when people sit there and
say, "Oh, you built this. We built that
building with a million dollars because
that's all we had available to us
without going and taxing the residents
of this town." and we're going to sit
there and do in continuous improvements
to that t that building and through
other grant funding sources. So I think
this board of f this board of selectmen
and the prior board of selectmen and the
prior board of selectmen before that who
sat there and and had to deal with the
funding and how it got done I think did
a great job. I I I got to believe that
the community sits there and looks at
that building and goes it's a great
building. Is it perfect? No.
>> Is it perfect? No. Hey, we didn't have
enough money to put in an elevator.
Guess what? We couldn't have an
elevator.
>> Yeah,
>> you know, live with it. That's what you
got to do. That's what we had to do. We
didn't finish the basement because we
didn't have enough money at the time. We
didn't connect it to a generator because
we didn't have enough money at the time.
But you know what?
this board and the previous town
administrator did a great job finding
money and have has found other ways
without taxing the residents to sit
there and improve that building. And I
listen to people criticize it. I listen
to people criticize it because, you
know, we're too close to the school or
we're this or we're that or we didn't
finish it. That's a bunch of hogwash. Be
really honest. This board did a great
job on that building and the residents
of this town should be extremely happy
that they have that type of building to
go into and our seniors finally got
something for themselves.
So,
>> even locating that building in there
took months locating it that we had to
change it around two or three different
times. I went out and laid it out in
different places and finally we came up
with the situation that's in now. And
all done by volunteers.
>> That's right. We have to figure out we
have we have to do a better job working
together and we have to do a better job
understanding that we get we we have we
have limitations with our professional
force and our employees
>> and a lot of this gets done with
volunteers and I just think we've got to
all do a better job working together
because it's really tiresome to be
really honest. It's it's necessary
>> ju just for your information there's
also a a state statute for um
requirements for competitive bidding for
municipalities and municipal powers.
So
>> Okay. And do you have that statute
number? Because I was trying to look
that up.
>> It's title It's title seven.
>> Yeah.
>> Chapter 98.
>> Okay.
>> Section 7-148V.
>> 148. Okay. I that was the one I looked
up.
>> Yep.
>> And that's very clear
>> also. And this is not us. I'm not I said
we could have easily tonight probably
done a memor memorandum to cease and
desist or anything like that. But this
is this is the board trying to work with
the board of education
>> and we're offering to try to get this
finished
>> and if they reject this I'm going to be
very disappointed.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Uh, I will I will ask as
nicely as I can. So, and Ann, you had
something you wanted to say. It looked
like
>> just going to say that yeah, we built
the basic building for the senior center
for a million, but I think by the time
you finish everything, including the
basement, you're going to be looking at
close to 2 million. So, I would think of
that as the total cost.
Oh, of course. But we did what we could
with the money we had available at the
time, which was
>> at that time, but that
building when you're done,
>> which which was to get the seniors a
place to to to go and they have that
place right now. And eventually when we
get the teen center or so, whatever
we're going to do with the basement, um,
we will do it. But and I always have a
saying, if you can't afford to do it
right the first time, you can't afford
to do it twice. So, let's get this
right. Let's get this right.
>> Everything that was done was done right.
>> Okay. All right, Carol, I apologize
already. Um,
so let's move on to uh 8 um
8H discussion and possible action on the
prior acting town clerk salary request.
Um, after the information that was
presented to us last meeting, are do we
have any more that we need to do to
discuss that
or are we okay to move on it and
eliminate it from future
agendas?
>> The only question I have is thatou
or MOA, whatever we're titling that only
addressed from July 1 to mid August.
She resigned in mid August.
>> No, no, I know, but it didn't address
salary prior to that point.
>> Um,
it didn't because at that point in time,
we were paying you to sit there and
train. So, we had that cost that we were
incurring in that office.
And so that's what the interpretation
that Eric was dealing with Britney under
was that since you were in that office
and you were going to stay in that
office until June 30th that the majority
of the additional work would happen for
her at July 1st. And and Carol,
honestly, my biggest problem is we've
got documentation from Britney in here
and she was aware of that because she
had to be aware of that when that was
submitted to the union.
That's my biggest problem. Like we ran
through all of this, but she was aware
of that document.
>> So, are we going to
is anyone going to act on this? Because
let's just move this forward as if it's
gonna we're gonna act on it. Let's vote
on something right now and move it on or
let's get it off of our agendas.
>> Jeeoff, last time I abstained because
there was a lack of information, but I
feel I I've gotten the information that
I needed and I don't feel we need to act
on this.
>> Okay. So, we can we can eliminate it
from the future agendas.
>> And listen, I if any other members of
the board want to make a motion to vote
on something, I'm okay voting on
something.
I just don't want I'm trying to I gota
we got to try to eliminate items off of
our agenda stuff. So,
>> okay. So, if there's no motion being
made, we're going to move on to item um
8 I discussion and possible action on
rental policy and fees for the use of
the community center and senior center.
So, we got a lot of information that was
in the packet from uh other community
centers and our community center.
So, does anybody have any issues with
the the
schedule that the
community center is
thinking of charging?
>> It's cheaper than other other community
centers,
but I guess that's good to start out
with.
>> Yeah, Tess Tess added that little part
about having somebody there all the
time. that are we just going to roll
that all in as just one fee per hour?
>> I don't know. Tess, you can answer that.
>> Yeah, I'm happy to answer that. Yeah, we
wanted to add that on to the additional
fee. Um, but we can break it down in the
contract itself. Um, I don't think it
changes. It would just change per hour.
Um, I did speak with Kermita today and I
do have some updated information. So,
I'm not sure if you want that now or
>> Sure. Let's do it.
>> Yeah. So, Karma does have a an extended
policy. I'm not sure if I'm using the
proper terms, but they do have an
extended uh policy called gather guard.
And you can take out additional um or
take out if you were renting the
facility, you can take out this policy
through Gather Guard that would protect
yourself for um accidents and
damage things like that. So they do have
that policy that people can take out. Um
it would depend on the type of event um
of how much that would be the type of
event and it would be uh case- perase
basis. It would be type of event, number
of people um where it was being held and
if there was alcohol or not. So they do
have a policy that would include if
somebody was to like a bob.
And I believe the wreck commission has
something like that as well. They
mentioned the wreck commission today.
would and would you administer these
policies? You would have the forms that
they would fill out when they did the
application to use the community center.
So, they would do that at the same time.
>> Yeah, they would just have a link on
that uh contract. They would have a link
that they could fill out um that extra
insurance policy and then add it to the
application when they apply.
But they would be required to if they
did a BOB situation, they would be
required to have the insurance.
>> That's correct.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Well, and if we require them to
have insurance, this would be the
insurance they would go through.
>> Do you have an idea approximate cost?
>> No, they did not give me that. They said
it did it did depend on the type of
event. How many people we can only have
60 people um sitting at tables with
tables and chairs? I believe it's 128 if
there's just chairs.
So, we're already we can already narrow
that down with how many people.
>> I thought that we agreed that there was
no alcohol.
>> I don't think that we've I I'm at the
understanding that we haven't we haven't
agreed on that yet.
>> I think I read that in your documents
that there was going to be no alcohol.
Also,
>> we Yep. We I did put no alcohol in there
because I think that that was I was just
giving you a draft. So, um Kerma today
said that that is an option and so if we
wanted that they could have that. They
would just have to um buy additional
insurance coverage.
>> I think the town of Colchester has the
person that's renting the facility
initial that there's to be no alcohol.
So, they're very uh serious about
>> the question. The question, Scott,
you're asking it and are we as a board
willing to sit there and allow residents
to have alcohol in that building?
>> I think at this point we just do it just
general use with no alcohol and then
let's just revisit it because I think
>> I think we've had this discussion
already, Chip.
>> I I think it's important that we just
get this document finalized, get this,
get this open so people can use it.
>> Yep. And and if you get a lot of people
saying they want to have a wine tasting
event or they want to have a Jack and
Jill or something like that and they'd
like to have alcohol, if you start
getting a lot of people like that, then
we should probably revisit it. But if
the majority of people don't, then maybe
we just don't even bother with it.
>> Yep. And we can we can add to the bottom
of that policy uh subject to change. Um
>> yeah. So then we could be covered. So
they could still use the same policy um
or the same application for rental. Um
it's just we could change it at any
time. We don't have to reward anything.
Just
>> it would be the insurance. So do you
want everybody to go through this one
insurance through Kerma and have them
add on um with a gather guard?
>> Well, is it a million? What is it? A
million. What's the the limits? A
million. Uh I I believe it's a million
but I think we would have to
>> I mean if they have their own insurance
company that they want to deal with and
they want to provide a certificate of
insurance that would be I think feel
that would be acceptable.
>> Okay. And you want it at 1 million.
>> Yeah.
>> For those for those
>> easy not to get
>> they have to provide a certain mean they
can fax you a certificate of insurance
you know for that date at those times
and people.
>> Yep. So it would be either or. So either
your own insurance or gather guard.
Here's the link. You put that with your
application.
>> Somebody may say I can get it cheaper
somewhere else and if they want to get
it and they have the coverage limits and
then we're good.
>> Okay. Yep. Excellent. And yes, it is
less expensive. Scott, you did mention
that that ours is less expensive. It is
less expensive than most others.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, we got it going and then maybe we
can change it.
>> Did you get my text? Did you get my text
and email today, Tess, about
>> I I got your email. I have the COA. um
meeting today. I didn't get out until
after 3. I saw your message and I did
leave at 4 today. Well, I wanted to
leave at 4:00. I didn't leave until
4:30. So, I didn't have time to um
respond to you, so I do.
>> Yeah, I just saw So, if we're doing no
alcohol, we just need to revise that
section 8 because it should say, you
know, it says no illegal drugs. Well,
cannabis is legal. So, I don't think we
want a lot of people firing up at the
community center
>> because they'll say, "Oh, this is
legal." So, you know, it didn't say in
your contract it was illegal. So, I
would probably
>> The first thing they'll say, too,
>> no add spell out.
>> No alcohol, no cannabis or illegal
substances.
>> Very good.
>> And then the smoking. I know I know the
building's no smoking, but they should
probably say that on agreement. There's
no smoking in the building. And I don't
know if there's a the smoking area been
>> I mean I know I know a couple
individuals that go outside the town
hall and smoke but
>> I I don't know for you know I mean
you're going to have people using the
community center that are probably
smokers and they're probably going to go
where do I go light up. So
>> it's supposed to be the the whole
property but
>> and where would you like that if we have
to put like a cigarette butt
>> probably in that probably between the
town hall and the community center
somewhere there between. So it wouldn't
be near any doors.
>> But um I don't know if that's an issue,
but I mean you're going to bring people
in they're going to smoke and it I
wouldn't I wouldn't want to see
cigarette butts being thrown on the
ground.
>> No, I'm agree. Or even down in the
bottom where if we have summer outings
um
>> they would be down in the bottom as
well. So the top one and the bottom.
>> We don't have a no smoking policy on
town buildings, do we?
>> We do.
Well, there's a lot of people breaking
it because I see people smoking outside
the town all the time
>> on the whole property. It's supposed to
be the property.
>> I think it's kind of like the same thing
with the dogs on the ball field, right?
We can sit there and say no, but then
you're you know, no dogs on the field,
but where they're going to put we're
going to put waste bags out there. I
mean, I think it's kind of
>> something. Same thing.
>> Yeah. Same. I think it's the same. I
think it's the same thing. We have two
cigarette butt dispenser, you know,
where you can put your cigarette butts
by the community room entrance and also
by the front door. They've been up since
2004.
>> Okay. So, we just got
>> just got to say that that's the space.
You know, I would allocate an area.
>> Do you want two, Jeff? Would you prefer
two? One on the top, one on the bottom.
>> Just just one. Just one.
>> Just tell them Tell them to go by the
door at the community room. They they
need to walk and get exercise anyway.
They can go down and hang out with Molly
>> in the town hall. Go to the town hall.
>> Go to the town hall and
>> there's already one there.
>> There's already one there. Don't don't
spend another dollar another thing to
kill somebody else.
>> Then one one other comment I had is just
when you do your walk through the search
just to whoever's doing the checklist
and and checking after the event, just
go through and flush all the toilets
because we've had issues in the town
hall of people plugging them. make sure
they're not clogged with somebody didn't
put a diaper down it or something and
it's plugged because you're going to
find it the next day and then how are
you going to pin that person on doing
that that user. So, I would put that on
your checklist just to make sure all the
drains are clear.
>> Yep. That's a good idea.
>> We'll go we'll go through all of those
items and yes, make everybody go down
there and hang out with Wall-E because
you know he needs
>> I didn't mention his name.
>> I love I love Wall-E. You can't you
you're not you're not going to Yeah,
we're good. Um are we done on this item?
>> Well, do we have
>> That's it for everything, right?
Everybody's all set for Tess.
>> Okay, that's the end of it.
>> So, we going to make a motion to approve
it
>> with the following
>> corrections
>> with the corrections that I noted
>> with the corrections
>> and I can send a draft over just to make
sure.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. That will be good for a test. So,
she'll have this out of her hair.
>> Thank you.
>> One thing.
>> Okay.
>> All right. We're good. We're good. Uh 8J
discussion and possible.
>> Do we have to make a motion to approve
that?
>> I did. I was waiting for somebody to
make it, but they were saying it was all
>> right. Make I'll make a motion to
approve the community use fee structure
as presented with the change in second
section 8 about illegal substances
including cannabis and alcohol are not
allowed including illegal drugs and and
in line six for the bathrooms to to to
make sure that all the the toilets flush
properly and then creating a smoking
area for people that smoke in Jeff
>> with a with a map or something showing
where the smoking area is.
>> Okay. So seconded by Scott. Any further
discussion?
>> All right. We're going to vote on this
item. Any
>> uh yes.
>> Yes.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray. Scott Persan.
>> Jeff Magguire. Five. All right. Thank
you very much.
>> Made Tess happy tonight.
>> Thank you Tess.
>> He did very much. Thank you.
>> All right. 8J discussion and possible
action on Hop River Homes contract. So
on page 54 of our packet
um
it shows what we sat there and passed in
on
September 27th of 2022. So the the
contract, you know, expires in
September. So we're really just trying
to get ahead of this. So everybody's got
to think about this. It's not something
we need to vote on today to what we're
doing. Um, but
previously and since I've been on this
board, we've given an abatement to the
um, Hop River Homes and it always had
something to do with the field there
that we were using the field. So, we're
not using the field. We haven't used the
field in six, seven years. Um,
the question is, do we continue and uh
extend the the multi-year tax abatement
or do we uh sit there and not renew it?
Um,
we had gotten in our packet about two
months ago and we probably should do it
for next month. We got some information
from the tax collector related to this.
And like I said, I don't think we need
to sit there and vote on this today, but
we do need to be thinking about it and
we need to know what our position is
going to be so that the Hop River Homes
can prepare for it.
>> One thing I did this past week, Jeff,
was I called down there and asked if the
uh past residents get any priority down
there or you residents of our town get
any priority? They said no.
>> Okay.
for
>> priority for wait the wait list because
most times they have a two-year wait
list to get into homes. So Andover
residents if you needed to go there
because of an emergency situation you
are not giving any priority and we also
have abaded anything over $12,000. So,
it's a substantial cash amount. And in
the past, we've we're supposed to get
their
tax information showing that they're
100% nonprofit,
what they charge the residents because a
certain number of their units are
section 8 and the other uh six are
department of agriculture. So they
prorrate the rent for based on the
person's income, but they still get the
money from section 8 or the Department
of Agriculture to make up the difference
in the rent.
>> Okay. Um, what I I'll try to do um is
ask for some more information and Carol
since you have a lot of history on that
if we can sit there and put together
something so we understand what we're
doing and you know in my head it's just
that we need to communicate to Hot River
Homes if we're going to make it if we're
going to make a change,
>> right? I know the assessor had given
some input on it too a few years back.
So maybe we can check with John.
>> Okay. Uh, anything else on uh Jay?
>> Would it be a lot to ask for to have,
you know, residents have a priority down
there?
>> They're privately owned. I don't know
that we could mandate I mean, we could
mandate that that is the rule if we're
going to give them an abatement, I
guess, but we'd have to I don't know
what the law would be on that. Yes,
>> I know the last time we did this, Scott,
we did get information from the
management company. So, basically what
it is is it's a nonprofit. Well, it's
it's a it's run by a management company.
And the question that I have and I have
always had is is the information that
Carol gave us on the rents is really
important because if the rents can't be
adjusted, then the abatement is going to
the management company.
One resident a year. How about that? Ask
for that. One resident a year. One for
sure resident a year.
>> Well, why don't we get the information
on the the document and decide if we're
going to give the abatement anyway?
>> I mean, who was using the field to begin
with?
>> Softball girls
>> years ago. And it's only softball girls
that that's can't be baseball. It's
>> can't be little league. Can't be little
league boy. Can't be boys. Can't be
teball. Can't even be T-ball. Softball
Girls is what the lease is in the
clerk's office. It's um in one of the
files. So, you can go in there and see
the 99 year lease that they gave us on
that. But, as you can see, no one has
maintained it. We used to go I think my
girls were the last group of girls that
played softball on that field and the
parents used to go down and maintain it.
I mean, we had we had um Hammer was
using it initially when some of the
residents were involved in that a few
years ago and they would go down there
and use it as a practice field, but
that's the last thing.
>> Didn't use it last summer, but he used
it this summer before.
>> Oh, he did? Okay. I wasn't
>> But but it it's not it's not been
maintained. And it is the septic leech.
It's the backup field for the for Hop
River Homes. So,
>> and how many more years how many more
years the lease?
>> I don't remember.
>> Even if we even if we we'd end up
probably breaking the lease if we sat
there and and terminated the abatement,
>> which I'm concerned about. Let's just
say the town grows in 20 25 years and
they start softball or, you know,
there's a softball need
>> and then we've kind of we've kind of
severed that agreement. But, you know,
20 years, $12,000 a year, that's quite a
bit of money. It's a lot more than
12,000 a year. We They only have to pay
us 12,000. So if their taxes are 30,000,
they save 18,000. So I don't know, Jeff,
you said that uh the tax collector gave
some information. Did she give an
amount? Well, if I if I sit there if I
>> I think the I think the the it's 50%
abatement on an annual was was what was
voted on and carried. So,
>> okay.
>> Yeah, it's but it's still a lot of money
and we need to just obtain all the
information and get all the information
so we can sit there and have the correct
information. It's not due until
September, but it's something that we
need to be thinking about what we want
to do.
>> And if it's restricted just to softball,
if it was, you know, if little leaguers
could use it and t-ballers could use it,
I would be more open to keeping it
going, but and I don't know if they'd be
open to doing something like that.
>> Didn't the document say more than just
girls? I thought
>> it originally was just girls. I don't
know if I I wasn't even aware that
Ryan's group was using it for practice.
So,
>> I think that the new one that was signed
is something a little bit more a little
different than that, more encompassing,
but not too much.
>> Well, let's sit there and
>> no adults. I know it said that.
>> You can see you can see that like the
you can see the school the attendance at
the elementary school is starting to to
go back come back up. So, we could in 10
years theoretically have a need for that
field. So, I would hate to give it away
and not be able to get it back if
>> I have I feel the same way, Jeff.
>> Okay. Well, let's sit there and get the
details and let's talk about it at our
next meeting. This is one that's going
to have to stay on here until we draft
the contract and get with the directors
of the Hop River Homes and get it done.
Okay. So, uh, if we move on to 8K,
that's discussion and possible action on
the review with MUI to allow Roberto
Dory to train and perform transitional
work in the sessions office. We're going
to move 8K to the end of our meeting.
We're going to move on to nine uh, which
is new business. New business discuss
and act upon the following. 9A
discussion and possible action on
schedule to review the 20 26 2027
departmental budgets. Um,
I know in speaking to other members, we
don't need to sit there and have crazy
meetings because we don't want to put
the new town administrator or the, you
know, the other town administrator
through a lot. We really need to focus
on the capital budget and the uh road
work and how much road work is really
going to get done. Um,
so
what I would like to do is get with Jim
and sit there and see the documentation
that the they the the treasurer's office
and the board of finance is putting
together and then u circle back to what
we want to sit there and propose as uh
as what we would like to see happen with
the town and the amount of money that
the town has available to spend. So uh
>> I'd be open. I think we should probably
put a draft together amongst us and then
just maybe have a meeting with the board
of finance together. Okay. With
basically spelling out what our what our
capital and spend needs are for next
year and what we'd like to see approve
what we'd like to see in the budget.
>> Okay.
>> That's what I'd like to propose. Um,
do we have some time at the end of the
month before our next meeting
uh to sit there and review any of the
information from the budget the budget
line items because it's there's we're
under a fairly tight timeline. Um,
what's everyone's schedule? And Jeff,
you have a February 11th joint meeting
with the
board of finance scheduled.
>> So, we need to be prepared before that
meeting. So, we have a February 11th
meeting with the board of finance.
>> I I have Kate put up Zoom meetings.
Maybe maybe BF pass the schedule.
>> Does that
>> February 11th, 18th, March 4th, March
18th?
>> Does that conflict?
Um,
>> that might have been a BOF schedule that
they passed.
>> The BOE meeting.
>> Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. It'll
conflict with the BOE meeting.
>> They have a joint meeting on the 18th.
It says on the calendar.
>> Yeah, that's that's it.
>> Board of Finest Board of Selectmen.
>> Actually, he has got him twice. We got
the 11th, the 18th,
>> the fourth.
>> 11th, and the 18th. So, can we find out
which one is the right? I think probably
what happened, Jim, is they moved it to
the 18th because it was conflicting with
the board of education meeting.
>> So, let's find out which one of those is
there. And then it still means we we
should get together either in the
beginning of February once we uh have
documentation and we should have a
meeting that's just strictly um dealing
with budget issues and capital that we
want to sit there and see moved forward
because
that's really where we can be the most
helpful is what is the vision for the
community and what do we want to see get
done um with the capital budget. that we
have available to our us. So,
>> you saying do a b budget workshop for
one day and just, you know, have one
meeting to just kind of go over
everything?
>> Yeah. But does anybody have a problem
with February 4th or do they want to do
it sooner?
>> That's fine. As long as we have it
before the 18th, correct?
>> Yeah. So,
>> do you think that maybe we should meet
the end of this month just in case we
need a second meeting, then we have the
fourth available? Sure.
How's the 29th
to Thursday?
>> It's fine.
>> Let me check my seller schedule. Second
and then that'll give time for Jim and
and what we need to get done in the
finance department to be able to
>> Yeah. Yeah, as long as I can get the
documents emailed to us before that date
so we can, you know, that way we can
formulate our questions and streamline
everything.
>> Yeah. So,
>> um, just so I'm clear, do you guys want
it all in the budget format that it was
in last year?
Um, I I think we need to talk with the
board of finance chair
and sit there and see because Chris, if
you're asking me, I don't want it in
that format, but I think it needs I
think it needs to be modified, but it's
a question of how is it modified and
what it what it's modified to. And um so
>> just please keep me in the loop and make
it clear so I can make sure you guys
have everything you need.
>> Yep, no problem.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay, so the 29th is fine um for me if
that works for everyone else.
All right, so Thursday 7 o'clock work.
So, Jim, if you could schedule a meeting
for us for the 29th of January, a budget
workshop meeting for the board of
selectmen.
>> Yeah. Does that come off as a special or
is it just a separate?
>> Yes, it's a special meeting.
>> Special budget workshop. You got
>> Okay.
Okay. Uh 9B,
uh discussion and possible action on the
establishment of a project review
committee. So this is what we were
talking about before. Um
this would be a project review committee
that would assist the town in any
project from from my end. What I would
recommend is any project, you know, in
in excess of $25,000, you would want
this committee to be
a committee that would just evaluate the
documentation and and the plan that is
going putting put forward. So in most
cases it would be um you know the town
administrator sitting there saying we
need to do X Y andZ project or the
superintendent saying we need to do X Y
and Z project and here's the project and
then this committee would sit there and
evaluate all of the documentation
related to that project and the best way
to to move forward. And if it was a
significant enough project and it needed
uh plans, they would then review the
plans and do all of the work that anyone
in a project review position would do
for any business, right? Am I am I
missing something, Jeff? Because, you
know, in my head, it's it's more just a
collaborative effort of volunteers from
the community that have construction
experience.
>> Yeah, it's correct. I mean, any any
project that I've ever taken on or had
to present, you bring in, you know,
subject matter experts to review your
proposal. And so, I just think it's it's
a good thing for the town. It's a good
thing for the taxpayers just to make
sure, you know, like I said, if you
can't afford to do it right the first
time, you can't afford to do it twice.
So, um just to make sure that we get all
our tees do, you know, crossed and our
eyes dotted.
>> All right. Um, does anyone have a
problem with what what what number would
everybody like to see that they that
this committee evaluate the project?
>> I think we should leave it open because
I I would like to try to get two
electricians. I'd like to try to get two
plumbers, you know, um because you're
going to have overlap. You're going to
have people that can't attend. Um and
we're not really we're not reallying
committee.
You're talking about a dollar threshold,
Jeff, or you
>> Yeah, I I was talking about a dollar
a threshold members.
>> Can I just ask a question? If we're
going to establish this committee, can
we let them know what their job is
because a lot of times committees are
established and they don't really
understand what their job is. So if like
what Jeff is, I hear what you're saying,
Jeff. don't really put a dollar
threshold on it, but I almost think that
we have to,
>> you know, because if it's if there's no
threshold, then do we have to follow our
own rules and when it's $2,000 call and
bother these volunteers to come in and
oversee it? You know what I mean?
I mean, I I have
I mean, $25,000 is a is a project to me
within the town.
>> That's that's a good project number.
That's not a repair. That's a project.
>> Yeah. But but you're not going to go
over road projects called, you know. No,
it's gonna be anything.
>> They're not going to go over uh
>> Well, that's why we would set up the
scope of what they would oversee.
>> There's going to be whoever's going to
chair this committee, they're going to
just bring in the subject matter experts
depending on what kind of project it is.
Let's just say for example, remember
when we Scott, when we did the well
project down at the ball fields and the
lightning protection,
>> that would just probably bring in
electricians for that and possibly a
civil engineer. But
>> we did. Yeah, we wouldn't maybe a PL we
wouldn't really need a plumber. We would
just need a we would just need a couple
electrical people just to
>> just to just do a sand.
>> You already volunteered to chair this
committee. We're holding you to it.
>> Well, I think we need to advertise it
first. I think we're
>> Oh, no. We need we need to advertise it
first. And listen,
>> advertise,
>> we should want we should want as many
people on this as want to participate
because the more eyes on something, the
better. Yeah. And whoever's on this
committee, like if there's a set of
drawing package that's got to go out, we
just send it out to everybody. Then we
have the meeting and everybody can come
with their comments
>> and we just make recommendations.
>> So you're talking about like uh like the
veterans field committee that was just
the the playground and pickle ball
courts. You're going to oversee that,
too? I would I would think if it was a
large project just the electrical and
the uh if there's well piping or
plumbing just to make sure that
>> we had we had electrical people design
the whole thing
>> but we would have people serving on this
committee permanently that would be
there.
>> I mean not every not every project's
going to have all those people on it.
So, but I also don't think Scott that if
if if someone was,
let's sit there and say you had a
project manager who was working with uh
private schools and all the work that
you did down the field would be similar
to some of the work that that person
would be doing on a regular basis, they
could at least guide you. And this isn't
not this is not like this committee is
going to have approval process. They're
there to guide
the town and whoever is, you know,
whoever is the one that's going to make
the final decision so that they do it
properly and they get the best value for
the taxpayers's money.
That's the basic setup of the committee
is to evaluate the project, let us know
what we can do better and what we should
do better and use your experience and
give us your guidance to say, "Hey,
listen. this is what you should be
thinking about doing.
>> I mean, perfect perfect example of this
committee would be for the new garage
down on Center Street.
>> Yeah.
>> Once we start getting some plans
together and stuff, that's the that's
the things we need to review. You know,
once we've picked this contractor, we're
going to say this is what, you know, we
want or and we're going to review the
drawings, whoever be on the committee,
>> electrical, plumbing, structural, you
know, that that type of that type of
stuff. And so the electrical guy could
sit there and say, "That doesn't make
any sense. Why are you doing this?
You're charging us too much money." Y,
>> right? I mean, that's that's what I'm
thinking that this group
>> or why are you not doing this or why are
they, you know, that's
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So,
Carol, I hear what you're saying that we
have to draft maybe a an appropriate
um
uh
procedure for this group, but it is what
we're talking about here in a very basic
way. It's,
you know, it's someone like Adrien
Mandeville who has all of the
construction knowledge and then can sit
there and be part of a group and look at
a plan and say, "Hey, listen. This makes
sense. this doesn't make sense. Those
are the types of people that I think
you're looking for. Um,
>> well, just let's take let's take the
town garage for example. I mean,
eventually we're going to have electric
vehicles at some point and they're going
to need rapid charging and the only way
we do that was three-phase power. So,
whoever would be on this committee as an
electrical expert would probably make
sure that we are sized appropriately for
three-phase vehicle charging. So, that's
the type of things that I want to look
at.
>> All right. So, uh,
I would like to make a motion that we
establish a
we establish a PL project review
committee that will be um be made up of
professionals in construction trades and
construction and engineering
uh, services that can uh, assist and
advise eyes on all town projects in
excess of $25,000.
>> Seconded,
>> right? And so further discussion. So
Carol, we will sit there and go through
and try to determine and write a better
u outline of expectations for this
group. But my mind in my mind, Carol,
this is all digital. This is as much
digital as it needs to be. the other and
then if you got to do a sitewalk or do
something along that lines, you're
trying to keep these volunteers engaged,
give us their expertise without
overwhelming them and forcing them to
come to certain things. This is going to
be like here's the project design or
here's what the initial
statement of work is on this project.
Can you evaluate it and let us know what
should be considered
>> before?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And it's just going to be
recommendations only. It's not going to
be they're not going to have any power
on a project or anything. It's just
going to be building recommendations.
>> Yeah.
>> And for the reason of that is we do have
some contractors in town that may bid on
some projects. So, we don't want to have
any involvement with spec writing or any
of that. So, they just going to be
purely advisory and and this should be
where we advertise for this committee.
And we also individually look for people
that we know would be qualified to to
submit uh their names for consideration
for this committee. And it really is not
even consideration. Pretty much it's if
you apply and you have a skill, we're
going to sit there and take advantage of
it.
Right.
>> So, can we get this in the River East
for this Friday? And and uh
>> I don't think we can do it for Oh, we
might be able to do it for this Friday.
I don't know. Is the deadline Tuesday,
Carol? Tuesday,
>> tomorrow.
>> Okay. Um I'll sit there and work at
drafting something with with Jim on that
or if you guys want to draft something.
That would be great if we vote on it. If
we approve it.
>> So, um
please be thinking if this gets approved
about who you might want to consider on
this committee. So, I uh I know that
Eric Sanderson has participated with the
board of education. I'd like to see him
on this committee. Um I would I have
some other people that I I will sit
there and recommend, but um we'll sit
there and get a list of them for our
next meeting and get this approved or
maybe we include this in our special
meeting for the 28th and we get it done
there.
So, all right.
>> So, I think I think we advertise then we
can we can roll up all the names and we
can appoint everybody at the next
meeting.
>> Okay. Um
>> that's what I'd like to see happen.
>> All right. So I'd like to sit there and
take a vote on the establishment of this
committee. Um an
>> yes I
>> Carol Lee
>> I
>> Jeff Murray I Scott Person
>> and Jeff Magcguire I for so five
nothing. So that's good. Let's there and
move that along.
>> Jim put it on the meeting for the 29th
right the special meeting budget
meeting.
>> Yeah that's uh today is the 12th.
Yes, we can sit there and say that they
have two Fridays to be able to get us
there.
So, the 16th and the 23rd and we'll say
we need the applications before the
27th.
>> We could put this on the town's Facebook
page and um leave it on the website.
>> That would be great. Let's do that. Um
9D discuss the status plan of
conservation development. The
conservation plan of conservation and
development was in our packet uh
starting on page 59 and going all the
way to page
176.
Um
>> next rainy day.
>> It was it was interesting. I went
through some of it. I did not go through
all of it in detail. um we should all
attempt to try to be at the board of
planning and zoning meeting that they
requested of us. And so since Scott and
Ann are already on that, that leaves us
other three to to read this and attend
that meeting if we can. Um and I also
recommend anybody from the community to
go read that. It's very interesting
information as far as a lot of
demographic information in there that's
uh interesting and uh
>> a lot of information that you know will
determine different you know directions
for grants and things like that you know
>> I think I think we forgot 9 C right
>> oh I'm sorry I did um we'll go back for
that so to the 9D is to discuss status
of plan conservation and development. We
don't have to discuss anything here.
It's here and we're going to review it
and try to attend the planning and
zoning committee the meeting that was
requested. Uh 9C discussion and possible
action on establish of a town job
description review committee. So we have
been reviewing the um job description of
the um u the senior center director and
the assistant director. I I do think it
would be it would be helpful if we
established um a committee to uh
evaluate and organize all the job
descriptions within the town uh
including the town administrator uh
public works. I think we should sit
there and engage all of the the heads of
the departments to sit there and um
have consistent job descriptions uh
across all of the town departments and
employees. And what I would recommend
and what I would like to do is once we
uh I would like to put this in place and
ask for uh community involvement, but I
do think we would want to hold off on
doing it until the with the exception of
the job description for the town
administrator. We should probably get
that finalized um as soon as possible.
But I think it would be really good to
have the new town administrator involved
in this because then they could sit
there and walk through with all the
department heads and understand what
they do and what their their functional
tasks are and then how to build a job
description to go through this. Um,
and I would also sit there and say that
two members of this board should be on
it and then we should open it up to
three members of the community and
u
unless there's other opinions as to how
to do it.
Anybody have any information or want to
talk about it or
>> I think we should also
talk with the labor attorney because
there's a lot of conflicting
job descriptions,
contracts that conflict with our
personnel policy. Then we have some
positions that are identified within our
charter. And
I just think we need to consult with a
labor attorney, too, and not just go out
and have
people doing this without consulting.
>> That's fine. I I have no problem with
that. I I don't think that engaging the
labor attorney, you know, and and we
should probably have that discussion
among our board like there is there has
been discussion over um minimizing the
use of contracts for given positions and
and I I I I have no problem having that
discussion if we then lead this
committee. Let's sit there and say this
committee is maybe not just a job
description committee. Maybe it's an HR
committee and we try to find some HR
professionals out within the community
that might be able to help us because
one thing you're trying to do is is
determine
do we have contracts for
anyone other than the town administrator
and the director of public works. You
know, are they needed? Um but then then
Carol we also need to review the town
personnel policies and update the town
personnel policies.
>> So how we go about that as a board um in
a fair and evenhanded way is really what
I'm after.
>> So I don't want it to seem as if one
member of this board is sitting there
trying to jam through the job
description. So, I don't want to be that
person to sit there and say, "This is
the job description and this is the only
way it needs to be." And I don't want to
be the only person that sits there and
says, "We need contracts for five people
when we really only need them for two
people or one person." Um, so how do we
want to sit there and
do this type of committee? Well, I think
we should probably I I mean I I agree
with Carol at the labor attorney, but I
don't know if it it would be premature
to engage them now. I think we had the
committee. We wrote all the job
descriptions and then we send all that
information to the labor attorney and
say, "Does this conflict with anything
that's currently on the books as far as
union contracts or that?" Because he's
got to have something to review,
>> right? But a lot of most of the
positions are are union positions. So,
the only ones that are not um is the
town administrator, the community center
employees
um and the public works director, and
then of course we have zoning
enforcement
and the building inland wetlands and
that who aren't part of the union. Do
those individuals have contracts with
the town? They do not.
>> I don't believe so.
They might have small memorandums, but I
we have to dig through.
You know, we need to we need to work
with Jim to continue to improve what the
next administrator gets,
you know, what they have available to
them in the initial stages because um it
would be helpful. Uh, I do think we need
to go through the the personnel
policies, Carol. I think we need to go
through all of the job descriptions
because you know why in my head it would
be good to go through all the job
descriptions, even the library director,
because then if we have it all set up in
one place and it's all there, all the
job descriptions are consistent and then
we can sit there and any board any
future board can sit there and review
the job descriptions and know what's
know what's there. Do we need to make a
change? You need you make a change. Um,
>> right. I think the individual employment
contracts didn't come in until about
five or six years ago.
>> No, they they place they didn't come in
place until we put in a town
administrator.
>> Correct. Well,
>> no, it was after after
>> No, after after the town administrator.
So I mean
>> back when we were first selectman form
of government
>> you know there were no contracts there
was no contract for the first selectman
there was no contract for public works
they were just part of the personnel
policy
but we also didn't have
uh a public works director we had a
public works foreman
>> correct
>> right so
um
I I mean we don't need to do this today.
I just think it's something that we have
to put out there because we do have to
clean that stuff up. I think as a board,
if we want to sit there and get uh to a
point where we focus and we rely on our
personal policies the way that we've
there's been discussions of relying on
the personnel policies, then we need to
clean up the personnel policies. And
then we need to sit there and have solid
job descriptions for all of the
employees.
So anyway, uh we can leave this one on
for the next month too because hopefully
we'll be closer to a town administrator
moving forward, unless you guys want to
vote on this right now.
Okay. All right. Um
so we did D. We're on 9E discussion and
possible action on the appointment of
Lisa Jablonsky as treasurer.
>> Is that right? Um,
one second.
Okay. Um, so we had a meeting. Um,
when did we have our meeting? We had
another meeting. We had a special
meeting.
>> It was It was Monday, the same as the
education meeting,
>> the same day.
>> So, it was uh Monday the 5th at 2 PM. Um
let me go through the process. So, we
had received uh
we had received treasure applications.
There were three people that we had
looked at as far as um in reviewing the
applications and the resumes, there were
three people that had experience that
would have made a fit for Andover and uh
one of them um chose not to sit there
and have an interview and the other one
other two we had interviews with and
that committee was u members of the
board of finance. Um
so it was um Heather Vancouver uh Kim
Persan as members of the board of
finance and then Jim Balano also
participated in the initial interviews
and then uh from there there was a group
decision made on one of the candidates
uh Lisa and then we had a second
interview where the members of the board
of selectmen were able to sit there and
interview Lisa. So, um I don't know if
anybody has any comments related to that
or if they if we can vote on appointing
Lisa or anyone have any problems.
>> Jeff, did you ever get any feedback over
some of the things that were discussed
in executive session? Are you satisfied
with those?
>> Uh I am satisfied with them. I sent out
an email related to the board of
selectmen meeting minutes for Salem. Um,
personally, Jeeoff, I I sit there and
look at it as uh there was an issue in
Salem. She she was uh
the director of finance and HR, so she
had a specific level of involvement. And
uh
I think that all of what I was spoken to
about that issue really has no bearing
on it because I look at the issue as she
was a victim.
>> Yep. I I agree as well.
>> All right. I personally
I think Lisa is uh a very professional
person. I think her background will work
within Andover and I think her
her uh
her demeanor will fit well within the
town hall. That's my personal opinion.
So gee,
>> I think she'll be a good addition to the
town.
>> She wants She wants part-time work.
>> Yep.
>> Good fit.
>> Good fit. She's got aging parents. Uh
she lives in Coventry, aging parents,
and she's got young grandkids, so she'd
be a perfect fit for us.
>> Lives close by.
>> Lives close by. and and hopefully um
you know
that
I mean not for nothing everybody's got
to understand that we we have not had a
bad a great relationship across boards
and across departments within this
community and the treasurer needs to be
a unifying person and I think that she
can do that. So, my hope is that she
sits there and helps improve
relationships across the board of
finance and in the board of education
and the board of selectmen and everybody
works together and I'm hopeful that Lisa
can help get there.
So, I I mean I'd like to make a motion
that we hire Lisa Jablonsky as the
treasurer of the town of Andover.
>> Second that, Jeff.
>> Second that.
>> Okay. All right. Further discussion.
>> Can she start right away or?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. If there's no further discussion,
I I'll call the vote. Uh an creme.
>> Hi.
>> Uh Carol Lee,
Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person,
Jeff Magcguire. So that's five nothing.
So, we'll inform Lisa tomorrow um that
we can get moving on that one. All
right.
Let's see.
Next. Um
item 9F, discussion of possible action
on the appointment of Miranda McDonald
as the assistant to the assessor.
Uh Jim, I'm going to let you handle this
one because I was not engaged in this.
>> So, we interviewed a number of
candidates. Um it was six in total uh
from a larger group um was myself, it
was the assessor John Traononus and RE
Dhy um conducted the U interview. So
there's something you need to know off
the bat. this assistant to the assessor,
none of the candidates
had experience, direct experience in the
field. And I would say of the six, maybe
there were three of them that impressed
us very much. And so it was it was it
wasn't an easy decision. At the end of
the day,
um,
Miranda has some experience with title
work,
and that was kind of the closest we
could come to at least being familiar
with titles and homeownership and deeds,
and maybe might be the quickest learner
when it came to uh, the assessor's
office. And so, we unanimously settled
on on her. Um, But there will be a
learning curve here. We just thought her
background with title work made her the
best of the candidates and so the
committee recommends her hiring.
>> Can she start?
>> She can start immediately. She's another
local
almost. I mean
>> she's an Andover res, correct?
>> Yeah, Andover. Yes.
>> Okay. I thought so.
Does anybody on the board know Miranda?
What? Carol,
I She's very professional. She's done
title searchers in the clerk's office.
So, I I think she'd be very good in that
office.
>> Okay.
>> Make the motion.
Um,
>> I like Jeff to make them because he
doesn't
>> No, no, I was telling Jeff I was telling
Jeff to make the motion.
>> Okay. All right.
>> I'll make I'll make the motion uh that
we appoint Miranda McDonald as the
assistant assistant to the assessor.
>> And pre seconded. Um, further
discussion.
>> All right, I'll call the vote and creme.
I
>> Sarah
>> Lee. Hi,
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi,
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. So, that's five nothing.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh item 10, approval of the minute
meetings for 128 2025. Does anybody have
any issues related to the minute
meetings?
I'll make a motion that we approve the
the December 8th, 2025 regular minute
meetings.
Second.
>> All right. So, Carol Lee seconded. Um,
I'll call the vote. Any,
>> Carol Lee,
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person,
and Jeff McGuire I. Everyone voted uh
unanimously. So, the five five nothing.
Um,
uh, item 11 on our agenda is the
treasurer's report. Um
information for that starts on page
uh 185. Um
any questions related to the information
that was there? Any of the checks? Check
registers are starting on 205 going to
210.
Any questions? No.
Okay,
we will move on to the tax collector's
report that starts in 211 of our
package. So, the tax collector is in the
middle of her collection month right
now. So, she's in the town office
as much as she possibly can be. Um
Kate wrote us an information u a note
that's on page 214.
Um
any questions or anything that we want
to get with Kate on?
Okay.
Um
the pages between 215 and uh
228 are all delinquent the the highest
delinquent taxpayers within the town.
>> Name one.
>> Yeah. Uh page 229
is uh a total of tax refunds for
$1,461.38.
So I'll make a motion that we authorize
the refunding of $1,461.38
um to various taxpaying
residents or taxpayers of the town of
Andor.
Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. All right.
Further discussion.
>> We'll sit there and call a vote. Anne
creme
and voted. Yes. Carol.
>> Hi.
>> Caroline.
>> Yep. Heard Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I So we voted four 50 on
that issue as well.
Uh page 231 starts the departmental
reports. Um
and the one report that that that that
is interesting to me and something that
we really do need to focus on is the
building department. I know December is
always a small month a
slow month for building permits, but it
just
it just seems like it's really low. And
I know that I've had discussions with
Scott related to this and it's something
that we need to focus on and figure out
a way to improve how cost estimates are
are generated down in that office.
>> Calling around different different towns
to uh find out what kind of
>> apps they use for that reporting and I
haven't gotten any good information yet.
I I reached out I was talking to Adrian
the other day just you know a phone call
and he said Windham has a very good
process so that might be something
Dennis could even help us with. They
said if they have a they have a
threshold for square footage per cost
per square foot and if a per building
permit comes in under that, they just
reject it and they tell them, you know,
come back when you have a good value on
your uh your addition or your
>> call down there to uh that guy that runs
that down there and he hasn't got back
to me yet.
>> That that's what I was told would be a
good person good to reach out to be the
tunnel window. Yeah, pages 241 through
are really good information that like I
was just sitting there looking at it
going, it doesn't make a lot of sense to
me. But and especially something like
the Verizon wireless antennas
>> taking they must be taking the antennas
down at the sportsman's club.
>> Well, I don't think they are. This is a
Route Six location and they did a a
removal and replacement of six antennas
and and you know,
I can't believe it just cost $40,000. I
don't I don't believe in any world that
that's what they got charged. So, it's
just something we as a community need to
do to improve,
you know, we what we should hope to do
with the permitting process is to be
able to pay the cost of our our
inspector and the assistant who works
there. So, we need to do a better job of
it because this look at the cost of of
that shed of what is it? A 16 by 24
shed. $3,600.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. Something like that's eight to
$10,000 to go to Colder Farms.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But that's that's a 10 x 12, Jeff.
That one's 16 by 24.
>> I know. I'm just saying base ba a basic
shed from Cloer Farms is 8 to $10,000.
>> Exactly. Yep. That's a big one. It's
probably 20 something.
>> Yeah. So
>> So $3,600 was the estimated cost on that
That's what I'm saying.
>> And look at the pool, too. $54,000 and
$839 on a fee for the pool. Anyway, we
could go on and on about this one, but
this is something we really do need to
look at for the benefit of the community
and how permits.
>> Do something about this.
>> Yeah, I mean, the the cell tower, I
mean, $40,000 in labor. That looks like
it's mostly a labor. This looks like
they're swapping out antennas. So, that
that number is probably good. Okay.
>> There's a couple other ones that are
look accurate.
>> Okay.
>> And while we're talking about building
department, is there any I I was I was
at a I went by a property on Long Hill
today and there was no dumpster on the
site and they were just stacking drywall
scraps right out in the front yard, a
huge pile of them. And I was always told
that these these a dumpster is required
on site.
>> We do have an ordinance that requires
>> Yeah. I mean, they're not following the
ordinance. I mean, there's just a huge
pile of just building debris just right
out in the front yard.
>> It says on Long Hill.
>> Yes. There's no dumpster there at all on
the property.
>> Well, then what we should do is
>> for the hill, the old stone house that
Yeah. Huh.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Look, look, look at the big
pile of drywall. I mean, they're doing
sheetrocking today, but there should be
a dumpster on site for that.
>> Yeah, there should be.
>> So,
>> all right. Um page unless other people
have other issues related to the
building department.
Okay. Page 249 through 252 is the uh
update on any
um
Scott I'm drawing a blank on that.
>> Light
>> light blight work. Yes. Blight. Thank
you.
Good question on that.
>> I look through that list and like 45% of
those things listed have been resolved.
>> Why do we keep so many of them on there
when they've been resolved and it just
fills up the list and it's hard to see
what's active?
>> We will ask the zoning enforcement
officer officer to remove those.
>> Thank you.
>> Maybe the ones that come to us, but I
don't think that he needs to remove it.
I think that that's a good record.
>> Well, he can hide it in his spreadsheet.
He doesn't need to delete the line.
>> He needs a record of that.
>> He can keep a record, but why do we need
to see them all?
>> Yeah, just do a spreadsheet and just
make a, you know, active tab and a, you
know, inactive tab, you know, just
>> something like that. A simple
>> move over the other tab. So,
>> right. A tab on the top.
>> Okay.
>> Page two different would be good, Jeff.
Exactly. Yeah.
Page uh 253 is um
is a report from Eric Johansson, our new
public works supervisor.
Um
he had a he had a an initial good go on
his first real winter month of December.
Had a couple good events. Uh
he was out plowing on the first event.
So, a little bit different than uh
expectations because he had one of the
drivers who was was out. Um
you know, and and honestly,
you know, that wind event that we had uh
in the middle of December was the first
time that I've seen trees come down in
town in a long time. So, um, they did a
lot of work and
you know, the utility companies did come
out and get the trees off the lines that
were out there. So,
um, I think Eric is doing a pretty good
job uh, to get started. And I hope
you're all communicating with him if you
have any issues. But
>> I stopped down there the other day just
to say hi.
>> Okay.
And so I guess now Zach Zto has
completed the tree warding program. So
Zach Zto will be the tree warden for the
town of Andover. So thank you Zach.
Um 254. Anything else you want to
Anybody want to talk about that? Um
public works? Nope. Okay. Um 254 is the
library report
and 255 our last page is the registar of
voters and and
since we were earlier talking about
smoking locations and Wall-E is is my
favorite smoker. Um Wall-E is actually
doing better. So I I'm happy to say that
he's waving to me a little bit happier
now that he's feeling a little better.
So it's good good for that.
Uh anything else as far as uh
departmental reports? No.
Okay. Um before we move to executive
session, I would like to actually do um
public speak if no one here has a
problem.
Right. Okay. So, we're going to move on
to 14. I'm assuming Jim there's nothing
on item 14 for correspondence. Jim?
>> No.
>> Okay. Uh, we're going to move on to item
15, public speak,
and
I got to look for a different computer.
So, first on my list is Diane Grineer.
Thank you very much. Um, good job, guys.
Lot lots of things actually done
tonight. Uh, I know you had a big list.
Um, I really like the idea of the
project review committee. I think that's
a that's a good one. and um welcome to
the new uh assistant to the accessor and
the new treasurer. Um
we we needed those things and it's a
it's a good thing and thank you all for
all you do for us. Thank you and good
night.
>> Right, Liz Lo catch.
>> Um hi. Uh not too much. Just wanted to
thank you all for all your hard work and
I am looking forward to the board of ed
meeting and hope that it is
wellreceived. U I think you guys are
coming about it from the you know with
the right heart and um
I'm going to be rooting for you.
>> Okay. Um Chris Harky, I won't call you
Galaxy 525.
>> Nope. Thank you. No, it was just looking
forward to meeting the new treasurer.
>> Okay. Um, Stephen King,
>> was a pleasure listening in. Thank you.
>> Bill Penn.
All right, we'll go to Elaine Bukart.
>> Hi, thanks and and and thanks Jim for
reminding me that we do need state
permission for that second. Welcome to
Andover Sign. Um, and just uh let me
know when we need to go ahead and do a
sitewalk with the state to go ahead and
determine if if the location we picked
was correct.
Thanks,
>> Joanne Heert.
>> Um, just going to say congratulations on
hiring two new employees in the town
hall and um that's it. Thank you so
much.
>> Leanne Hutchinson
All set. Thank you anyway.
>> Okay. And uh phone number 2345. Is that
Dennis?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Um
uh uh everyone, thank you. Did I miss
anyone? Oh, I'm sorry. Test grass.
>> Um I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Okay. Uh did I miss anyone?
All right. And then um uh everyone,
thank you. I'm going to make a motion
that we uh enter executive session for
discussion on uh theou with uh
the MEIU union. And I would like to
invite in Jim Balano and uh Dennis
O'Brien if anybody.
Right.
Who wants to second that so we can get
moving?
>> Second, Jeff.
>> All right. Jeff Murray. Jeff Murray
seconded. So, we're gonna go through
voting. Uh, Ann Crme, you can just talk
in the background. Oh, she went away.
Um, um, Carol,
>> Jeff Murray,
>> I
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I And we'll sit there
and go for 01. We'll say that an
abstained. Um, okay. So, Jim, if you
could put everybody in the wait room
that wants to stay on. Um, and we have
to And then there's
Okay. And then one second.
Okay.
So, Jim, let back in the two people. All
right. Um, so we're going to move on to
item 8K, discussion and possible action
on theou with MEIU to allow Robera Dohy
to train and perform transitional work
in the assessor's office. Uh do we have
any discussion issues that we want to
have on this topic?
Okay, since there are none, I'm going to
move on to item uh 16, adjournment. I
make a motion that we adjourn.
>> We have a new person out there though.
Owner, is that Wall-E?
>> No, it's me.
>> Well, your phone number is up there,
too, Dennis. What's going
>> Yeah, I know. I'm I'm on the phone, too.
>> All right. Okay.
>> So, Dennis, you were in the waiting
room, but
>> we're looking at your phone number.
>> I muted him. I muted him so he wouldn't
get any background noise.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, I made an I made motion
to adjurnn. Who second it?
>> I'll second.
>> Caroli seconded. All those in favor?
>> I.
>> So, that is a five nothing vote. And uh
anyway
>> uh we will see everybody.